In-Person Hybrid Meetings: The IURA no longer conducts Public Meetings exclusively remotely. Meetings must be conducted in
person, complying with NYS Open Meeting Law (OML), which applies to all IURA Board and Committees. Members of the public
who would like to deliver VERBAL comments at a meeting (3-min. max.) are strongly encouraged to do so using the Zoom link and
108 E. Green St. log-on credentials listed on the agenda, although they are welcome to do so in person at City Hall. WRITTEN public comments
Ithaca, NY 14850 may be submitted before the meeting, using the instructions listed on the agenda. Pls. refer to the IURA Public In-Person/Hybrid
(607) 274-6565 Meetings Policy for more detailed information and further instructions. LIVE-STREAM VIDEO: A non-interactive YouTube live-
stream of the meeting can also be viewed at: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC7RtJN1P_RFaFW2IVCnTrDg. Because of a
slight delay in launching the live-stream, the video may begin a few minutes before the meeting is formally convened.
AGENDA – SPECIAL MEETING
IURA Neighborhood Investment Committee (NIC)
1:00 p.m., Thursday, March 5, 2026
(public, staff, & presenters may join remotely)
Common Council Chambers (Third Floor) │ 108 E. Green St. │ Ithaca, NY 14850
Pre-Registration Required to Join Zoom Meeting:
https://us02web.zoom.us/meeting/register/d7rKI8MdSvOvdw2CwAo5XQ
PUBLIC COMMENTS
After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the WRITTEN public comments may
meeting. be e-mailed until 9:00 a.m.,
the day before the meeting to:
amendizabal@cityofithaca.or
g. Members of the public who
would prefer to deliver VERBAL
comments at the meeting (3-
I. Call to Order
min. max.) should either
appear in person or use above
II. Changes/Additions to Agenda
Zoom link and log-in
credentials (for video) or dial-
III. Public Comments (if any)
in number and log-in
credentials (for telephone).
IV. New Business
A. Review/Discuss 2026 Annual Action Plan Applications
(applications available individually at IthacaURA.org )
a. Affordable Housing Applications
b. Public Facilities Applications
B. Summarize Issues/Questions to be Resolved for Next Review
V. Motion to Adjourn
If you have a disability and require specific accommodation in order to fully participate,
please contact the CITY OF ITHACA CLERK’S OFFICE at 274-6570 or clerk@cityofithaca.org at least 72 hours prior to the meeting.