In-Person Hybrid Meetings: The IURA no longer conducts Public Meetings exclusively remotely. Meetings must be conducted in
person, complying with NYS Open Meeting Law (OML), which applies to all IURA Board and Committees. Members of the public
who would like to deliver VERBAL comments at a meeting (3-min. max.) are strongly encouraged to do so using the Zoom link and
108 E. Green St. log-on credentials listed on the agenda, although they are welcome to do so in person at City Hall. WRITTEN public comments
Ithaca, NY 14850 may be submitted before the meeting, using the instructions listed on the agenda. Pls. refer to the IURA Public In-Person/Hybrid
(607) 274-6565 Meetings Policy for more detailed information and further instructions. LIVE-STREAM VIDEO: A non-interactive YouTube live-
stream of the meeting can also be viewed at: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC7RtJN1P_RFaFW2IVCnTrDg. Because of a
slight delay in launching the live-stream, the video may begin a few minutes before the meeting is formally convened.
AGENDA
IURA Neighborhood Investment Committee (NIC)
9:00 a.m., Thursday, January 8, 2026
(public, staff, & presenters may join remotely)
Common Council Chambers (Third Floor) │ 108 E. Green St. │ Ithaca, NY 14850
Join Zoom Meeting:
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/82348267854?pwd=OTRDWFVnV3BMeHpWTW5aSUxLcFpaQT09
Meeting ID: 823 4826 7854 PUBLIC COMMENTS
Passcode: c9FG8s WRITTEN public comments may
be e-mailed until 3:00 p.m.,
One Tap Mobile: +16469313860,,86544488315#,,,,*006712# US
the day before the meeting to:
Dial By Your Location: +1 646 558 8656 US (New York)1. amendizabal@cityofithaca.or
Meeting ID: 865 4448 8315 g. Members of the public who
would prefer to deliver VERBAL
comments at the meeting (3-
min. max.) should either
appear in person or use above
I. Call to Order Zoom link and log-in
credentials (for video) or dial-
II. Changes/Additions to Agenda
in number and log-in
credentials (for telephone).
III. Public Comments (if any)
IV. Review of Minutes: December 2025 (November & August 2025 Minutes provided to show approved
changes)
V. New Business
A. Continuum of Care Updates – Liddy Bargar, HSC Director of Housing Initiatives
B. Adjustments to 2025 Project #15 “Work Preserve: Job Readiness”
C. Update – Common Council Legislative Policies
VI. Other Business
A. IURA Grants Summary [November summary will be available next month]
B. Staff Report
VII. Motion to Adjourn
If you have a disability and require specific accommodation in order to fully participate,
please contact the CITY OF ITHACA CLERK’S OFFICE at 274-6570 or clerk@cityofithaca.org at least 72 hours prior to the meeting.

108 E. Green St.
Ithaca, NY 14850
(607) 274-6565
DRAFT MINUTES
ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY (IURA)
NEIGHBORHOOD INVESTMENT COMMITTEE (NIC)
9:00 A.M., December 11, 2025
Council Chambers, City Hall, Ithaca, NY
Recording of Meeting:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-
HVMGKYrVRI&list=PLfplo_VA57eoUh2lzCFl1woCvfjMU14oa&index=2
In attendance: Shaianne Osterreich, Chair; Karl Graham, Vice Chair; Fernando de Aragón; Steve
Williams; Mary Baker
Excused: None
Staff: Anisa Mendizabal, Community Development Planner
Guest(s): None
I. Call to Order Time Stamp: ~ 0:29
Chair Osterreich called the meeting to order at 9:03 a.m.
II. Changes/Additions to Agenda
None.
III. Public Comments (if any)
None.
IV. Review of Minutes: August and November 2025 ~2:32
Minutes for August 2025 were approved 5-0 on a motion from de Aragon and a
second from Graham, contingent on:
• Confirm Williams’ excused absence [confirmed, see November recording:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fejLaR-
hJ2w&list=PLfplo_VA57eoUh2lzCFl1woCvfjMU14oa&index=5 ]
November Minutes were approved 5-0 on a motion from Graham and second from
de Aragon, contingent on the changes indicated below.
• Properly identify Chair and Vice Chair (p. 1).
1

• De Aragon, not Osterreich seconded the motion for adoption of the contract
modification resolution (p. 4).
• Make note that the lack of publicly available details-- including available to
the Committee-- on the proposed Homeless Service Enhancement project
made determining its merits difficult and may have affected the Committee’s
ability to support it (p. 7).
• Insert reprogramming chart that was distributed during meeting (p. 3).
V. New Business
A. Organizational Meeting – 2026 Annual Action Planning Cycle ~6:15
The Organizational Meeting of the HUD Annual Action Planning Cycle is a
required element of Ithaca’s HUD Citizen Participation Plan (CPP). Mendizabal
pointed out that this year, the application process will commence in January,
instead of December (this is a return to a previous practice). Additionally, the
deadline will be on a new date—February 20, 2026 at noon.
She provided an overview of the annual process; summarized the Con Plan goals
to be pursued; and provided a table showing historical funding levels and
number of projects. She provided projections for Ithaca’s 2026 funding levels for
HUD: $664,000 for CDBG and $233,000 for HOME. The difficulty and pitfalls of
making such projections was discussed. Graham asked if the IURA had engaged
in contingency planning, should projections fall short or if funds are not made
available; this might be something the IURA Board wants to discuss. Mendizabal
will convey this idea/comment to the Director of Community Development (Nels
Bohn).
B. Discussion & Action – Reprogramming Available Public Services CDBG Funds in
Accordance with Spenddown Workout Plan ~32.00
At the November meeting, the Committee made recommendations for a larger
amount of CDBG funding. Only $30,000 of the overall amount of CDBG funding
available for reprogramming is eligible for Public Services activities, and it was
decided that the Public Services reprogramming would be discussed at this
meeting (December 2025).
Mendizabal distributed reprogramming information (below).
2025 Timeliness – Progress Toward IURA Work Out Plan (Part II – Public Services)
Chart 1 – Funds Available for Reprogramming: IURA Staff collected information from
grantees to determine amount of CDBG Public Services funding anticipated to become
available by the end of November 2025. The chart shows current projections.
2

Program Project Project Expiration Date CDBG Funds
Year (PY) Sponsor Becoming Available
for Reprogram
2025 ISP CCTT n/a $30,000
Total Estimated Available $30,000
Alternative Projects: Eight alternative projects in the Public Services category were evaluated based on
criteria including need, urgency, compliance, cost, LMI benefit, and administrative resource requirements.
Considerations that Differ from Reprogramming Funds to Housing and Public Facilities Projects
• National Environmental Protection Act (NEPA) reviews for Public Services are generally very
simple because they do not have physical impact on the human environment. As such, NEPA
considerations do not weigh as heavily as they do for activities involving construction, rehab,
or other changes to the physical environment.
• Low- to Moderate-Income (LMI) Benefit: HUD-funded projects are expected to benefit
primarily LMI people. There are different ways to categorize provision of benefit. Individual
benefit and area-wide benefit are two ways often used.
o Individual benefit: The project has a target audience (i.e. youth in need of 1:1
tutoring; outreach to adults experiencing homelessness) and a stated goal of
reaching a certain number of individuals or households. This numeric goal is
tracked.
o Area-wide benefit: The project is open to anyone in the neighborhood or
community. Census data is used to determine what percentage of the
residents of the area are LMI and (estimate) the anticipated reach of the
project.
• Spenddown Rate: The design of the project and the pace of reaching beneficiaries affects
how quickly the project can expend funds. Many PS projects are designed to reach a certain
number of individuals/households over the course of a year.
o For projects providing individual benefit, a basic intake process occurs, and
demographic information is collected. The project sponsor reports its progress
towards its numeric goal to IURA, and reimbursements generally keep pace with
the services as they are provided.
 For example, a project with a goal of reaching 20 people that has reached
10 of those people would be eligible for reimbursement of 50% of its
award. Using the same project as an example, if it incurred and was
reimbursed for start-up costs, but was slow to reach beneficiaries,
additional reimbursements would be paused until the project
demonstrated being on track and beneficiaries were being identified.
o Projects providing area-wide benefit may have a slight advantage in speedy
expenditure, because once the project is implemented, it is available to the
community at large, and vouchering may occur upon implementation. Data are not
collected on individual beneficiaries, though the agency often tracks usage (e.g.
how many people utilize the services each month). Theoretically, the project could
expend all of its costs quickly.
Examples: A community center that is open to all residents, providing
o
myriad services and resources to LMI people; an event-based project held
outdoors in a majority LMI neighborhood offering services to anyone.
o Project Design May Affect Spenddown Rate: Some PS projects are designed so
that the CDBG funds support staffing over the course of a year. These projects
often plan to incur 25% of their project costs per quarter. Demographics are
3

collected and the project’s reporting is expected to show they are reaching
beneficiaries. If they are reaching fewer than anticipated, reimbursements will be
paused. If they reach the intended number of beneficiaries more quickly, they may
complete their project in less than a year.
• Example: ISP, the project declining 2025 funds, often completed in less
than four quarters.
Other Considerations
• Substantial or Minor Amendments
Minor amendment: Reprogramming funds of <$25,000 to a 2025 CDBG-funded project
o
(adding funds to a project with an existing contract).
o
Substantial Amendment (requires 30-day Public Comment, Public Hearing, Common
Council approval):
 Reprogramming funds in any amount to a new project. (Substantially
different use of funds than articulated in the AAP). New projects also
require a new (additional) contracts, the creation of which may be time-
consuming.
 Reprogramming funds of >$25,000 to any project, existing or new,
requires a substantial amendment.
• 2025 Funded Projects: IURA Staff was asked to compile information on projects that
applied for and received 2025 CDBG funding, but whose awards were not fully funded
(scaled awards). These are shown in the top portion of Chart 2.
• Is IURA bound by contingencies articulated at adoption of 2025 AAP? No. The
contingencies related to amount of the CDBG and HOME allocations from HUD. The City
received slightly more in both programs, and the contingencies were implemented as
articulated and entered into the AAP.
Chart 2 shows the PS alternatives
Proposed Project 2025 2025 Difference LMI Benefit Additional
Alternative Sponsor Request Award (Request minus Information
Award)
Project
or Current
Request
2025 Projects – Funded at a Lesser Amount than Requested (Scaled)
2025 Finger $25,944 $7,300 $18,644 Contract: 29
ReUse Lakes households (hh)
Materials ReUse
Access Request: 1,750 (55%
Program Ithaca residents)
(ReMAP)
2025 2-1-1 Human $20,000 $18,20 $1,800 Contract: 2,500 hh +
Informa- Services 0 25 individuals
tion & Coalition w/Housing Navigation
Referral
Helpline Request:
2025 The $36,786 $13,60 $23,186 Contract: 5 Change in
Housing Learning 0 HUD priorities
Scholar- Web Request: 5 re: CoC.
ships Transitional
4

Personnel Living
Support Program
eliminated
(different
program that
housed
youth).
2025 Work Historic $20,000 $17,00 $3,000 Contract: 12 Capacity
Preserve: Ithaca 0 individuals challenges.
Job
Readiness Request: 15 No job
placement
component.
Enrolled high
school
students vs.
independent
youth.
Commitment
Materials
Paperwork?
(Not
submitted as
of
12/11/2025).
Other Alternative Projects
Proposed Project 2025 2025 Difference LMI Benefit Additional
Alternative Sponsor Request Award (Request Information
Project minus Award)
or Current
Request
2025 Catholic $6,000 $6,000 Not scaled. 92 CCTT (and
Security Charities [same as Security others)
Deposit of Tomp- [any amount] Deposits] request to
Staffing kins- County was
Tioga scaled by
$19,303 of
which
$11,792 was
budgeted to
Security Dep
staffing
2025 A CCTT $10,000 $10,00 Not scaled Contract: 10 New HUD
Place to 0 individuals priorities
Stay [any amount] mean funding
uncertainties
5

Samaritan CCTT Not 2025 Area-wide (Ithaca) CCTT (and
Center Applicant others)
request to
[any amount] County was
scaled by
$19,303 of
which
approximatel
y $9,000 was
budgeted for
the Samaritan
Center.
Mobile Bike/ 2025 Applicant Area-wide (Ithaca) These funds
Bike Clinic Walk requested would
Tomp- $30,000, not support a
kins funded: mobile bike
clinic, which is
different from
their 2025
proposal.
On a motion from de Aragon and a second from _______[uncaptured] the
Committee resolved 5-0 to recommend allocating the $30,000 mainly to Public
Service activities that had been funded at a scaled amount in the 2025 AAP. The
funds will “top up” these activities (provide the full amount requested in the
application), and the remainder will be directed to staffing for administration of
the 2025 Security Deposits activity. Mendizabal was asked to reach out to the
identified projects to ensure the funds discussed, if directed to them, have the
capacity to absorb and utilize it. [She did, they can.] The resolved/resolution
developed on the floor was ultimately took the form below when it was
forwarded to IURA.
2025 Annual Action Plan (AAP) Minor Program Amendments
to Meet the CDBG Timeliness Requirement
WHEREAS, on July 25, 2025, the IURA adopted a Community
Development Block Grant (CDBG) Timeliness Work Out Plan
(Work Out Plan) to ensure City of Ithaca CDBG funds are
expended to comply with HUD regulations, and
WHEREAS, a grantee is considered in compliance with the
CDBG timeliness requirement if, 60 days prior to the end of
the program year on June 1, the balance in the grantee’s line
of credit, plus the balance of program income on hand
including any revolving loan fund, is not more than 1.5 times
the most recent CDBG grant, and
6

WHEREAS, the Work Out Plan commits the IURA to evaluate
in November if the IURA is on-target to meet the CDBG
timeliness requirement and identify alternative CDBG
projects as appropriate to meet the CDBG timeliness
requirement, and
WHEREAS, the CDBG timeliness expenditure ratio as of
October 31, 2025 was 2.4, approximately $740,000 short to
meet the upcoming June 1.5 CDBG timeliness ratio, and
WHEREAS, the IURA is not on-target to meet the CDBG
timeliness test in 2026 unless CDBG funds are reprogrammed,
and
WHEREAS, Catholic Charities of Tompkins-Tioga declined
$30,000 in 2025 funding for Public Service project #14, ISP,
which funding is now available for reprogramming, and
WHEREAS, according to the City of Ithaca/IURA Citizen
Participation Plan, a “substantial” change in the use of
Entitlement Funds from one eligible activity to another
eligible activity “… is defined as any change in allocation of
funds for a specific activity that constitutes more than
$25,000 allocated to that actual activity …”, and
WHEREAS, reallocating a total of $30,000 to multiple eligible
activities where no individual activity receives more than
$25,000 constitutes a series of minor amendments, and
WHEREAS, staff has initiated consultation with past and
current grantees to identify potential eligible and
implementable public service CDBG projects that can expend
funds in a timely manner, and
WHEREAS, at its December 11, 2025 meeting, the IURA
Neighborhood Investment Committee reviewed this matter
and recommended the following reallocation of CDBG
funding; now, therefore, be it
RESOLVED, that the IURA hereby adopts the following minor
amendments to the 2025 HUD Action Plan to address CDBG
timeliness requirements as follows:
SUBTRACT:
7

$30,000 2025, Project #14, ISP, Catholic Charities of
Tompkins-Tioga (CCTT)
ADD:
$1,800 2025, Project #11, 2-1-1 Information & Referral
Helpline, Human Services Coalition of Tompkins County
$23,186 2025, Project #12, Housing Scholarship Program
Personnel Support, The Learning Web
$3,000 2025, Project #15, Work Preserve: Job Readiness,
Historic Ithaca
$2,014 2025, Project #16, Security Deposit Assistance
Intensive Staffing, CCTT $30,000
And be it further,
RESOLVED, that the Director of Community Development for
the IURA is authorized to issue funding commitment letters in
accordance with this resolution.
VI. Other Business
A. IURA Grants Summary
None this month.
B. Staff Report ~1:02:57
Mendizabal reported briefly on the following:
• A legal notice for last month’s action on 2025 AAP Substantial
Amendments appeared on December 3, 2025; the public hearing at
Common Council is scheduled for January 7, 2026.
• HUD Buffalo Community Planning & Development (CPD) Director Jill
Casey is retiring December 31, 2025.
• Continuums of Care nationwide are expected to experience deep cuts as
HUD defines new priorities.
8

108 E. Green St.
Ithaca, NY 14850
(607) 274-6565
DRAFT MINUTES
ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY (IURA)
NEIGHBORHOOD INVESTMENT COMMITTEE (NIC)
9:00 A.M., August 8, 2025
Council Chambers, City Hall, Ithaca, NY
Recording of Meeting:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NI262WdF1jU
In attendance: Shaianne Osterreich, Chair; Karl Graham, Vice Chair; Fernando de Aragón; Mary
Baker
Excused: Steve Williams [confirmed]
Staff: Anisa Mendizabal, Community Development Planner
Guest(s): Leslie Ackerman, Director of Community Housing Trust (CHT),
Ithaca Neighborhood Housing Services (INHS); Ari Hama, Sidewalk Program
Manager, City of Ithaca
I. Call to Order
Chair Osterreich called the meeting to order at 9:02 a.m. Timestamp ~7:40
II. Changes/Additions to Agenda
None.
III. Public Comments (if any)
None.
IV. Review of Minutes: Draft Minutes of July 2025
De Aragon moved to approve, [uncaptured] seconded. Approved 4-0.
Following up on July discussion, Baker inquired about Historic Ithaca (HI) Board
recruitment/diversification efforts. HI’s new Executive Director, Zach Lifton,
contacted IURA Staff saying he would bring the issue to HI’s board leadership.
1

V. New Business
A. Action Items – Resolutions
Note: The three projects addressed by the two resolutions were discussed at the
same time.
Mendizabal introduced Leslie Ackerman, Director of INHS Community Housing Trust.
Ms. Ackerman submitted a letter to IURA Community Development Director Nels
Bohn requesting an extension for three projects,
• 2022 “215 Cleveland Ave. For-Sale Home,”
• 2022 “CHT Sears St. Development,” and
• 2023 “CHT Sears St. Development”
With 2022 Project #1 “215 Cleveland Avenue For-Sale Home,” the issue
precipitating the extension request is the need for INHS to obtain a Letter of Map
Amendment (LOMA) which will reflect the engineering completed on the site to
raise the home above the base flood level and therefore exempt the property from
the flood insurance. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) issues
LOMAs. There is uncertainty about the turnaround time from FEMA. In the past, it
has taken weeks or months for FEMA to review and issue a LOMA. When 215
Cleveland is issued a LOMA, the qualification of a homebuyer and the homebuying
processes can proceed.
All three of the projects are HOME-funded. The HOME Program has its own
regulations separate from CDBG and does not have the timeliness test we’ve talked
so much about. Each of the resolutions included a chart showing the project status
in relation to milestones for HOME expenditures. These three HOME projects have
no effect on CDBG timeliness.
De Aragon asked if there would be any issues in meeting HOME’s milestones with
the requested extensions. IURA Staff response: Likely not. The unknown relates to
the Letter of Map Amendment INHS has applied for from the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) to except (exempt) the eventual homebuyers at 215
Cleveland from the flood insurance required for the duration of the mortgage. The
timeline for FEMA review and response is currently unknown. FEMA may be
receiving numerous LOMA requests now that updated flood maps are in effect, and
FEMA’s capacity to process them is uncertain. After further considering these
factors, Ms. Ackerman requested a longer extension than originally stated in her
letter. The resolution reflects the amended date.
~14:00 Ms. The Sears St. units go on the market on August 23, 2025 and are
expected to be under contract quickly. Originally, Ms. Ackerman felt a revised
contract expiration date for February 2026 would be workable. However, the
2

closing process can be lengthy, so Ms. Ackerman ultimately landed on April 30, 2026
as a reasonable date for completion of the project (as stated in resolution).
Graham asked if the Sears St. homes are in the revised flood zone. Response:
Surprisingly, no.
The Sears St. project is the first where INHS has acted as the general contractor. Ms.
Ackerman noted that though the units are modular, there was more construction
work necessary on them than originally anticipated.
~18:00 INHS does not pre-select buyers. There are often people interested many
months prior to a sale, but the qualification process only begins once the homes are
ready for market to avoid having to verify qualifications more than once.
INHS keeps an interest list, lists homes publicly (so anyone can see them), and has an
open house. Two to three weeks is the usual window for buyers to submit their
qualifications for an INHS. If there are more applicants than units, which is usually
the case, a lottery is put into effect.
Discussion ensued about how INHS lands on the ~70% AMI selling prices, mortgage
rates, and INHS’ homebuyer assistance. Homebuyer assistance is structured
differently depending on the funding source. If INHS offers the homebuyer a loan, it
is a zero interest, zero payment loan for the duration of the loan. If a homeowner
moves before the loan’s term is up, then they would most likely pay the balance of
the loan.
Baker asked about the timeline for sale of the 215 Cleveland Ave. home. Ms.
Ackerman responded that-- similarly to Sears St.-- but for the LOMA, the house is
almost ready to go on the market. Originally, it was intended that Sears and
Cleveland would go on the market about the same time. However, 215 Cleveland
has the flood plain issue whereas Sears does not. The Letter of Map Amendment
basically recognizes the property as a “special island” above the base flood level. It
is essentially a waiver to the flood insurance requirement. TG Miller, the structural
engineering firm, will conduct an elevation survey, then submit the request for
LOMA. Once the LOMA is approved, INHS can sell 215 Cleveland Ave. because at
that point, the buyer can finance the house knowing that there is no flood insurance
necessary. Flood insurance would make the home unaffordable. If the LOMA takes
4-6 months, the sale could still occur in time for the revised contract deadline.
*Note: In the meeting, the Sears St. resolution was voted upon before the Cleveland
Avenue resolution.
1) 2022 Project #1 “215 Cleveland Ave. For-Sale Home”
3

Contract Modification – Time Extension for
2022 Project #1, “215 Cleveland Avenue For-Sale Home”
WHEREAS, the City of Ithaca’s 2022 HUD Entitlement Annual Action
Plan (AAP) allocated $50,000 in HOME Investment Partnerships
Program (HOME) funding for Project #1, “215 Cleveland Avenue For-
Sale Home,” by Ithaca Neighborhood Housing Services (INHS), and
WHEREAS, in a letter to the IURA Director of Community
Development Nels Bohn, dated July 29, 2025, INHS requested an
extension until September 30, 2026 (as revised) to allow for a Letter
of Map Amendment (LOMA) to be approved by Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) and for the homebuyer identification
process to proceed, and
WHEREAS, HOME-funded projects are subject to a 24-Month
Commitment Deadline requiring the Participating Jurisdiction to
identify and commit funds to projects within two years of receipt of
the HOME Grant Agreement, and
WHEREAS, HOME-funded projects are subject to a 5-Year
Expenditure Deadline, whereby the funded project must be
completed within five years of the Participating Jurisdiction’s receipt
of the HOME Grant Agreement, and
WHEREAS, 2022 Project #1 complied with the 24-Month
Commitment Deadline, and
WHEREAS, an extended completion date of September 30, 2026 for
2022 Project #1 will comply with the 5-Year Expenditure Deadline,
and
IURA -
IURA – INHS
HOME 24- HOME 5- INHS
INHS Contract
Month Year Contract
Project Contract Extension
Commitment Expenditure Expiration
Execution End Date
Deadline Deadline Date
Date (Proposed)
(Original)
2022 09/30/2024 04/12/2024 09/30/2027 03/31/2025 09/30/2026
Project COMPLIED
#1
WHEREAS, any extension over 120 days must be reviewed and
approved by the IURA Board, and
WHEREAS, after review and discussion of the extension request with
INHS staff at the August 8, 2025 meeting of the IURA Neighborhood
Investment Committee (NIC), NIC recommended extending 2022
Project #1’s contract to September 30, 2026, now, therefore be it,
4

RESOLVED, that the IURA hereby authorizes the Director of
Community Development to modify the funding contract by letter
agreement for Project #1, “215 Cleveland Avenue For-Sale Home,”
to extend the expiration date for 2022 Project #1, “215 Cleveland
Avenue For-Sale Home,” to September 30, 2026.
Motion by Graham, second by de Aragon.
Carried 4-0.
2) 2022 Project #5 and 2023 Project #4 “CHT Sears St. Development”
Contract Modification – Time Extension for
2022 Project #5 & 2023 Project #4, “CHT Sears St. Development”
(INHS)
WHEREAS, the City of Ithaca’s HUD Entitlement 2022 Annual Action
Plan (AAP) allocated $92,140 in HOME Investment Partnerships
Program (HOME) funding for Project #5, “CHT Sears St.
Development” and the 2023 AAP allocated $100,000 in HOME
funding for Project #4, “CHT Sears St. Development,” to Ithaca
Neighborhood Housing Services, Inc. (INHS) to construct a total of
four permanently affordable CHT (Community Housing Trust) homes
for first-time homebuyers earning <80% Area Median Income (AMI)
at 117 & 119 Sears St., and
WHEREAS, in a letter to the IURA Director of Community
Development Nels Bohn, dated July 29, 2025, INHS requested an
extension until April 30, 2026 (as revised) for both projects, due to
delays arising from the financing timelines of the multiple funding
sources, modular construction finish work, and the identification
process for qualified homebuyers, and
WHEREAS, HOME-funded projects are subject to a 24-Month
Commitment Deadline requiring the Participating Jurisdiction to
identify and commit funds to projects within two years of receipt of
the HOME Grant Agreement, and
WHEREAS, HOME-funded projects are subject to a 5-Year
Expenditure Deadline, whereby the funded project must be
completed within five years of the Participating Jurisdiction’s receipt
of the HOME Grant Agreement, and
WHEREAS, both 2022 Project #5 and 2023 Project #4 complied with
the 24-Month Commitment Deadline; and
WHEREAS, an extended completion date of April 30, 2026 for both
2022 Project #5 and 2023 Project 4 would comply with each
5

project’s 5-Year Expenditure Deadline with an extended completion
date, and
IURA -
IURA – INHS
HOME 24- HOME 5- INHS
INHS Contract
Month Year Contract
Project Contract Extension
Commitment Expenditure Expiration
Execution End Date
Deadline Deadline Date
Date (Proposed)
(Original)
2022 09/30/2024 04/12/2024 09/30/2027 03/31/2025 04/30/2026
Project COMPLIED
#5
2023 08/30/2025 08/2/2024 08/30/2028 09/30/2025 04/30/2026
Project COMPLIED
#4
WHEREAS, any extension over 120 days must be reviewed and
approved by the IURA Board, and
WHEREAS, after review and discussion of the extension request with
INHS staff at the August 8, 2025 meeting of the IURA Neighborhood
Investment Committee (NIC), NIC recommended further extending
the contract expiration for both 2022 Project #5 and 2022 Project #4
to April 30, 2026, now, therefore be it,
RESOLVED, that the IURA hereby authorizes the Director of
Community Development to modify the funding contracts by letter
agreement for 2022 Project #5 and 2023 Project #4, “CHT Sears St.
Development,” to extend the expiration date to April 30,2026.
Motion by de Aragon, second by Graham.
Carried 4-0
B. Discussion – CDBG Spenddown Remediation
The Committee reviewed the CDBG Workout Plan that Community Development
Director Bohn submitted to the HUD Regional Office. Mendizabal also circulated
additional information about reprogramming Entitlement (especially, in this case, CDBG)
funds. See “Reprogramming” document at the end of these Minutes.
~40:00 Bohn’s Workout Plan identifies four slow-moving projects and provided updates:
• INHS Homeowner Rehab – has submitted a voucher for about $32K, with
another project having just been completed that has not vouchered.
6

• Cecil A. Malone – under contract and to be completed by the end of the
construction season. Note: Mendizabal corrected an erroneous statement she
made in the previous meeting. The correct information is this: The City doesn’t
save money on sidewalk projects by letting the contractor choose which will be
completed first. Rather, the City suggests a schedule that pairs projects that are
close in proximity together to reduce the construction mobilization (staging) costs
which are expensive – in the $40K range. If projects are paired, the mobilization
is optimized and associated fees are less. Mendizabal also made this correction
in the July 2025 Minutes.
• Economic Development Loan Fund – it’s been a slower year, less demand for
loans than in previous years, though that could change. Currently the balance is
quite high.
• Shared Kitchen Ithaca (SKI) – Just submitted their first Quarterly Report and
voucher. This project was slow to begin. However, compared to the other
projects noted here, it’s much smaller dollar-wise at $32K.
The Chair pointed out that ~$70K was the gap that needed closing – the amount of
CDBG funding that would have needed to be spent down by the end of May 2025-- to
meet the 2025 timeliness test.
According to Bohn’s projections, IURA projects will need to cumulatively spend down
$74,000/month between now and May 2026 to meet the 2026 timeliness test.
Bohn outlined primary actions to remedy backlog, including :
• increased monitoring,
• increased attention on Risk Ratings,
• expediting National Environmental Protection Act (NEPA) environmental reviews
(because projects can’t begin until these are done),
• streamlining the IURA contracting process, and finally,
• considering reduction of the number of CDBG activities funded in the AAP.
[Identifying back-up Projects and mid-year reprogramming of funds are also part of
Bohn’s plan].
Committee Members discussed where slowness occurs because of IURA procedures and
where it occurs on the project side.
~59:00 Mendizabal reviewed the process to reprogram funds and the factors to
consider. The act of reprogramming funds changes the AAP. Changes to the AAP
require procedure.
Minor Amendment: Reprogramming funds amounting to less than $25,000 (i.e. $24,999
or less) where the activity to be undertaken (i.e. the activity receiving the
7

reprogrammed funds) remains substantially similar to the original proposal for the funds
is called a Minor Amendment. This is a relatively simple process. [Example 1: A Public
Service that receives an additional $15,000 to implement its project, but where little or
nothing else about the project changes (the services to be provided do not change).
Example 2: A Public Facilities project building a sidewalk receives $24,000 to extend the
project a little farther.]
Substantial (Major) Amendment: Reprogramming funds that amount to $25,000 or
more, and/or which requires substantial change the activity/purpose of the funds is
called a Substantial Amendment and requires many steps, including
• notifying the public at least 7 days in advance of the public hearing,
• holding the public hearing,
• carrying out the mandated public comment period,
• [update/revision to the NEPA Review, if necessary]
• bringing the resolution to Common Council to for approval,
• (Common Council may need more than one meeting to fully consider the
resolution),
• submitting the Amendment to HUD,
• HUD Review, and
• requires factoring in possible delays such as public holidays, meeting schedules,
etc.
realistically takes 45 days or more.
When there are time constraints-- as with trying to reach a May 31 spend down date-- it
may be more necessary to move with urgency to carry out the reprogramming.
Graham noted that many or most of the projects being considered for reprogramming
would come through NIC. Mendizabal agreed, though pointed out that Economic
Development (ED) projects or reprogramming of ED funds would go through that
Committee.
C. Presentation – Cherry St. Sidewalk Extension – Ari Hama, Sidewalk Coordinator, City of
Ithaca Department of Engineering
~1:03:00 It came to IURA’s attention that there is an opportunity to create Cherry St.
sidewalks where they lack by pairing that project with the Cecil A. Malone. The Cherry St.
sidewalks or lack thereof have long been a concern of NIC.
Mendizabal introduced Ari Hama, the City’s Sidewalk Program Manager. He brought with
him some visual displays. As included in the August NIC Agenda Packet, this project could
add [664] feet of sidewalk along Cherry St., closing gaps in the pedestrian network there.
These sidewalk segments would connect to the Tabor St. sidewalk, the bridge over the flood
control channel to the Black Diamond Trail, and Cecil A. Malone. These changes would
8

remedy the sidewalk isolation of Arthaus by giving residents a clear pedestrian path on
either side. The cost if does this year, by adding it to the current contract, is estimated to
be $69,842. If delayed, inflation could be expected to add at least $7,000 to that estimated
cost.
The Chair also thanked Mr. Hama and the Engineering Department for paying attention to
the concerns NIC has voiced over time.
1:32:30 Jumping back to Timeliness, Mendizabal brought up that while reprogramming can
be implemented through a competitive process, it is not required and such an approach
tends to take a lot time of time and capacity to carry out. Another option is gathering
information from around the community and trying to pre-identify projects that are eligible;
this approach tends to be a quicker pathway. Either way, Substantial Amendments require
a public process.
Would funding the Cherry Street Sidewalks solve the timeliness problem? Short answer is it
will help. Longer answer: August 1, 2025 was the start of our new Program Year (PY 2025-
2026). With the start of the new PY, the 2025 CDBG funds become available to expend.
Therefore, 2025’s $600+K of funds have now been added to the balance that was that was
being monitored previously for timeliness, and we “start all over again” with a much higher
balance we need to spend down. This is why Bohn projected how much CDBG would ideally
need to be expended each month ($74,000) to meet the May 2026 timeliness target. The
Cherry Street Sidewalks, if completed this year, would cost about $70,000, so yes, that
would help reach one month’s $74,000 target.
Looking at the timeline presented in the Reprogramming overview (see attached at the end
of the Minutes) document, Committee Members wondered if the HUD Review process
would slow the ability to support the Cherry Street Project, especially if they need to add it
to the existing construction contract and complete it by November. Mendizabal explained
that if she completed the NEPA review and an MOU is executed with the City, the City could
incur costs at its own risk. Graham asked if the City would be looking for a guarantee from
IURA that HUD would approve the Substantial Amendment, thereby making funds available
prior to construction starting—because the timeline likely wouldn’t make that possible—or
rather would they consider moving forward with the assurance that the amendment
process is underway. Mendizabal said it was her understanding that yes, that would be
sufficient, but she would bring the question up to Bohn so it could be addressed at the IURA
Board Meeting.
~1:48:38 After thorough discussion the NIC enthusiastically supported the possibility of
installing sidewalks on Cherry Street this construction season, developing a “Resolved”
statement on the spot:
RESOLVED, the NI Committee is in favor of using economic development funds to
expeditiously complete Cherry St. sidewalks to the Cecil A. Malone Dr. intersection
9

VII. Other Business
A. IURA Grants Summary
Homeowner Rehab has a voucher in that is not reflected on the June grant
summary.
Chair Osterreich pointed out that the spend down (timeliness measure) is still
being shown as $70K.
Mendizabal explained this is so because this grant summary is for June, which
was before the new program year began on August 1, 2025. On the August grant
summary, the “new” (2025) funds will be shown and the timeliness measure (the
ratio at the bottom of the page) will be much higher. Then we will see it creep
down through the year as funds are expended.
B. Staff Report
The 2025 Annual Action Plan was approved by HUD.
Mendizabal (in person) and IURA Contracts Monitor Charles Pyott (via Zoom) met
with OAR to review their 2024 Contract, how to voucher, review reporting deadlines,
etc. Feedback was that it was very helpful to meet in person. Mendizabal intends to
do this for all executed contracts in the year ahead. For very long-time partners,
there may not be the need to review the contract’s particulars in depth but an in-
person visit could serve as a time to ask questions and discuss the project.
Mendizabal followed up with Shannon MacCarrick, Habitat’s Executive Director, in
response to Williams’ observation in the July meeting that Habitat had undertaken
rehab work in a previous year at Nate’s Floral Estates. She said that a number of
years back, Habitat partnered with another organization, Love Knows No Bounds
(LKNB), to facilitate rehab there, but it was LKNB that carried out the actual work.
Habitat does not have the proper insurance to carry out such projects. Likewise,
while Habitat has done a bit of rehabbing at houses that are not mobile homes, the
scope has been much more limited – examples: a ramp, a deck, roofing on a single-
story house. Again, insurance would be an issue for any interior work. Finally,
Habitat has never worked with CDBG regulations, only HOME.
VIII. Motion to Adjourn
The Chair motioned to adjourn at 10:51 a.m. Adjourned by consensus.
[“Reprogramming” Overview document distributed at this meeting is attached.]
10

108 E. Green St.
Ithaca, NY 14850
(607) 274-6565
AMENDED DRAFT MINUTES
ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY (IURA)
NEIGHBORHOOD INVESTMENT COMMITTEE (NIC)
9:00 A.M., Thursday, November 13, 2025
Council Chambers, City Hall, Ithaca, NY
Recording of Meeting: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fejLaR-
hJ2w&list=PLfplo_VA57eoUh2lzCFl1woCvfjMU14oa&index=3
In attendance: Shaianne Osterreich, Chair; Karl Graham, Vice Chair; Steve
Williams; Fernando de Aragón
Excused: Mary Baker
Staff: Anisa Mendizabal
Guest(s): Nels Bohn, IURA Director of Community Development
I. Call to Order
Chair Osterreich called the meeting to order at 9:11 a.m.
II. Changes/Additions to Agenda
None.
III. Public Comment
None.
IV. Review of Minutes – Postponed to next meeting
V. New Business
A. Action Items
1. Resolution – Extension Request – 2024 Project #10 – DICC – ADA Compliant Doors
Mendizabal explained that Nels Bohn authorized a 120-day time extension in response to the
request of the Executive Director of Downtown Ithaca Children’s Center (DICC) for an
extension to March 31, 2026, due to a delay in receipt of matching funds necessary to
complete the project. A partial voucher for the work done to date was submitted, and an
electrician has been identified to perform the upgrades needed to power the doors. However,
the door company must complete the installation of the powered doors. Electrical work is
pending confirmation and scheduling with the door company to ensure the project is
completed before March 31, 2026.
Graham asked about the impact on the agency’s monthly spenddown target and if the
electrical work could be completed and reimbursed. Mendizabal responded that anytime a
project is stalled, it requires reaching out to other projects to see if vouchers can be submitted
1

for reimbursement. She explained that the electrical work on this project needs to be delayed
if the doors cannot be installed or if the project remains incomplete.
Williams moved, seconded by Osterreich:
Contract Modification – Time Extension for
2024 Project #10 “DICC ADA Upgrades & Modifications”
WHEREAS, the City of Ithaca 2024 Annual Action Plan (AAP) allocated $20,620.00 in Community
Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding for Project #10 “DICC ADA Upgrades & Modifications”
(2024 Project #10) by Downtown Ithaca Children’s Center (DICC), and
WHEREAS, the contract expiration date for 2024 Project #10 was September 30, 2025, and
WHEREAS, in a letter to the IURA Director of Community Development Nels Bohn dated August
20, 2025, DICC requested an extension until March 31, 2026, due to a delay in receipt of the
matching funds necessary to complete the project along with capacity issues arising from a major
initiative DICC completed in September 2025, and
WHEREAS, IURA Director of Community Development Nels Bohn authorized a 120-day time
extension of 2024 Project #10 to January 28, 2025, and
WHEREAS, any extension over 120 days must be reviewed and approved by the IURA Board, and
WHEREAS, after review and discussion of the extension request at the November 13, 2025
meeting of the IURA Neighborhood Investment Committee (NIC), the IURA NIC recommended
further extending 2024 Project #10’s contract to March 31, 2026, now, therefore be it,
RESOLVED, that the IURA hereby authorizes the Director of Community Development to modify
the contract to extend the expiration date of 2024 Project #10 “DICC ADA Upgrades &
Modifications” to March 31, 2026.
Carried 4-0
2. Resolution – Contract Modification Request – 2022 (CDBG & HOME) & 2023 (CDBG)
Projects #2 – Homeowner Rehab – INHS
Mendizabal explained that the IURA’s accountant was unable to process INHS’s entire
2022 Homeowner Rehab vouchers due to limitations in the contract regarding activity and
delivery costs. The issue also applies to 2023 projects. The eligible expenses are described
differently in the contracts. In both the 2022 and 2023 project budgets, INHS's estimates
were low, and INHS requested that the budgets be modified to reflect actual costs.
Graham moved, seconded by de Aragon:
Contract Modification — Activity Delivery Costs:
2022 Project #2 & 2023 Project #2, “Homeowner Rehab” (INHS)
WHEREAS, the City of Ithaca’s HUD Entitlement 2022 Annual Action Plan (AAP) allocated
$136,123.31 in Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding and $12,517.50 in HOME
Investment Partnerships Program (HOME) funding, for a total of $148,640.81 for Project #2
“Homeowner Rehab,” to Ithaca Neighborhood Housing Services, Inc. (INHS) to assist 6 low-to-
moderate-income (LMI) homeowners, and
2

WHEREAS, the City of Ithaca’s HUD Entitlement 2023 Annual Action Plan (AAP) allocated
$146,250.00 in CDBG funds for Project #2 “Homeowner Rehab,” to Ithaca Neighborhood Housing
Services, Inc. (INHS) to assist at least 6 LMI homeowners, and
WHEREAS, the 2022 Project #2 contract allows the following eligible expenses:
• Direct administrative costs (not to exceed 5% of the total HOME/CDBG contract awards)
• Project-delivery costs (not to exceed 13% of the total HOME/CDBG contract awards),
but also limits total delivery and administrative costs to $7,432, and
WHEREAS, the 2023 Project #2 contract allows the following eligible expenses:
• Construction, fees, inspections, contract mgmt., administration, & program delivery
costs, but also limits total delivery and administrative costs to $9,750, and
WHEREAS, in a letter to the IURA Director of Community Development Nels Bohn, dated October
30, 2025, INHS requested to modify the program delivery budgets of both contracts to revise low
original estimates to reflect the actual costs of these activities, and
WHEREAS, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), in Community
Planning & Development (CPD) Notice 2023-07 (“the Notice”) provides guidance on the
allocation of staff costs and the terminology used for different categories of staff costs associated
with delivering assistance through projects, and
WHEREAS, HUD CPD Notice 2023-07 specifies the following activities as eligible for
reimbursement as Activity Delivery Costs for housing rehabilitation projects:
a. Marketing grant activities.
b. Services verifying client eligibility, applicant in-take and processing.
c. Providing education or counseling to beneficiaries.
d. Preparation of site-specific environmental review and environmental assessment such as
New York State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO) determinations, well testing or phase 1
archaeology.
e. Development of construction specifications bid preparation and contracting.
f. Compiling cost data on individual housing units receiving CDBG assistance.
g. Construction monitoring and on-site monitoring.
h. Payment processing.
i. Filing fees and related legal expenses.
j. Engineering and/or architectural fees monitoring.
k. Client/contractor troubleshooting.
l. Any other professional services required to deliver the program
WHEREAS, the New York State (NYS) CDBG Program’s Grant Administration Manual allows up to
5% of the award for Activity Delivery Costs not associated with a specific homeowner
rehabilitation project (termed “direct administration cost” by NYS) plus 13% of the award for
activity delivery costs associated with a specific homeowner rehabilitation project, and
WHEREAS, after review and discussion of the budget amendment contract modification request
at the November 13, 2025 meeting of the IURA Neighborhood Investment Committee (NIC), NIC
recommended modifying the 2022 and 2023 Project #2 “Homeowner Rehab” contracts to allow
reimbursement for Activity Delivery Costs of up to 18% of the total awards for these projects and
to reflect HUD terminology (“Activity Delivery Costs”), now, therefore be it,
RESOLVED, that the IURA hereby authorizes the Director of Community Development to modify
the funding contracts by letter agreement for 2022 and 2023 Project #2, “Homeowner Rehab,” to
3

increase eligible Activity Delivery Costs to 18% of the total contracted amounts and revise
language to reflect HUD terminology, and be it further
RESOLVED, that the maximum amount of eligible Activity Delivery Costs for reimbursement are
now the following amounts listed in the “project delivery” lines in the revised budgets submitted
by INHS on 10/30/25:
• 2022, Project #2, Homeowner Rehabilitation: $22,262.38, and
• 2023, Project #2, Homeowner Rehabilitation: $26,325.00.
Carried 4-0.
B. Discussion – Reprogramming Available CDBG Funds in Accordance with Spenddown
Workout Plan
Guest: Nels Bohn, IURA Director of Community Development
Mendizabal distributed reprogramming information, including charts (below).
2025 Timeliness – Progress Toward IURA Work Out Plan
Chart 1 – Funds Available for Reprogramming: IURA Staff collected information from grantees to determine amount of
CDBG funding anticipated to become available by the end of November 2025. The chart shows current projections.
Program Project Project Sponsor Expiration Date, CDBG Funds Becoming Available for
Year if applicable Reprogram (estimated)
(PY)
2023 Project # 2: INHS 03/31/2025 $35,000 - $65,000
Homeowner
Rehab
2024 Project #8: Historic Ithaca (HI) 06/30/2026 $32,500
Work Preserve:
Job Placements N/A - no further
beneficiaries
anticipated
2025 Project #8: Historic Ithaca (HI) N/A – declined $67,500
Work Preserve:
Job Placements
Project #9: SSCC N/A - declined $70,400
Southside
Community
Center (SSCC)
Upgrades
Project #14: CCTT N/A - declined $30,000*
ISP
*$30,000 is the maximum amount
eligible for reprogramming to Public
Service (PS) purpose in the 2025 AAP.
It is not required to be allocated to a
PS use, however.
Total Estimated Available Low $235,000 – High $265,000
Total Estimated Available minus Public Services Eligible Low $205,000 – High $235,000
Chart 2 – Alternative Projects (following page): Twenty-one alternative projects in the categories of Housing and Public
Facilities (PF) were evaluated for criteria including need, urgency, compliance, cost, LMI benefit, NEPA environmental
review issues, and administrative resource requirements. Chart 2 shows the five Housing/PF projects top-ranked for
achieving timely outcomes. Eight PS alternatives were identified, to be discussed at the December meeting.
4

Proposed Project Cost LMI Benefit NEPA Environmental Review Considerations Timely
Alternative Sponso Estimate Expenditure
Project r Review Flood Historic <20% if funds are
Status Plain Preservation change available by
January
SSCC Fire City of $70,000 Area-wide Substantial- No. NYS Historic Meets this Very likely,
Panel Ithaca (51% of ly complete. Preservation standard. pending
Replacement service area Office confirmation of
is LMI). . (SHPO) contractor and
requested equipment.
additional
information.
This action is
less likely to
trigger
mitigation
requirement
s.
2022 Project INHS $50,000 One (1) LMI Complete. Yes, No. Meets Yes. Costs have
#1: 215 household. mitigat standard. been incurred.
Cleveland ed.
Ave.
Cass Park City of $92,300 Area-wide. Needed. No.* No. Meets Very likely. Out
Public Ithaca - standard. to bid with
Restrooms + $286,000 *Consul 6/1/2026 project
Pavillion t to completion date.
(linked confirm
projects) .
Homeless City of $75,000 Presumed Needed. Low/no Low/no Anticipate Very likely.
Services Ithaca LMI flood impact d to meet
Enhancement (homeless plain anticipated. the
(non- PS) persons). concern standard.
s.
Handicapped City of $20,000 Presumed Needed. Yes, No impact May not Unsure. More
Parking near Ithaca LMI but… anticipated. meet information
TC Mental (severely surface standard. requested.
Health disabled parking Need
adults). is not a more
structur informatio
e. n.
Contract details: Projects listed either have an existing contract or can utilize an MOU, both of which require less extensive
administrative time than to prepare new contracts. All projects would require a substantial amendment (~60 days).
She stated that the IURA has been working to calculate the amount of funds available to
reprogram. She explained that unexpected issues arose for grantees, causing them to
decline funds; specifically:
1) INHS Homeowner Rehab projects are unlikely to be fully expended.
2) Historic Ithaca has experienced a turnover in staff and a change in leadership, and
have stated it does not have the capacity to carry out the job placement portion of
Work Preserve. Their placement outcomes are sufficient to voucher for $35,000 of
their 2024 project, but they do not anticipate any additional job placements,
leaving $32,500 remaining. Their Board has declined 2025 funding.
3) Southside Community Center encountered barriers in defining the scope of work
for the proposed upgrades project because of electrical issues related to the fire
and electrical panel, which problems must be resolved by the City, and regrettably
had to decline 2025 funding.
5

4) ISP – CCTT – declined the 2025 allocation of $30,000, which is the maximum
amount of CDBG funding that can be reprogrammed for Public Services in the 2025
AAP.
Mendizabal stated that 21 projects were reviewed, and eight are alternatives for the
Public Service project category and will be discussed at the next meeting.
Osterreich asked for clarification of which project funds were being considered for
reprogramming.
Mendizabal indicated that the total estimated available funds, excluding funds for the
Public Service category, were $205,000-$235,000, citing a chart provided to committee
members.
Bohn added that the agency staff can address more minor funding changes within the
Public Services category.
Responding to a question from Williams regarding changes in expenditures, Bohn stated
that the Agency committed to doing a workout plan, which was submitted to and
accepted by HUD, to review issues and initiate reprogramming if appropriate. The
October statements reflect a remaining balance of $670,000 to spend before May, and
the current spending target of $75,645 is not being met. He noted that the Cecil A.
Malone sidewalk project has been completed and will be disbursed before May 2026.
Mendizabal asked the Committee members for their thoughts on the five projects under
consideration and whether there are any other projects to consider.
Williams questioned the applications for the projects under consideration. Mendizabal
explained that all but one of the projects on the list came from the agency's solicitation.
Osterreich expressed concern about public perception and recommended having a
prepared statement explaining the process. Mendizabal explained that the amendment
process includes public notices, hearings, and a 30-day comment period followed by
responses.
Bohn added that the preference has been to roll funds into the next round of
applications, where possible, rather than due to the pressure of the spenddown.
De Aragón asked whether previous applicants had been contacted. Osterreich said that
she believed all applicants for non-Public Service categories were funded. Mendizabal
said she did not systematically contact every past applicant, but considered that capacity,
risk level, and experience on spenddown.
Bohn commented that the solicitation was broad but not systematic and not a public call
for proposals.
6

Mendizabal added that an elimination factor may have been related to contracts, and
therefore part of her focus was on activities with an existing contract that could be easily
modified or an MOU, noting that the contracting process adds time, resulting in a shorter
spenddown period.
De Aragón asked whether the proposed projects are the result of the Agency’s outreach.
Mendizabal explained that those chosen appear to meet the criteria most fully, but other
information or proposals are welcome as well.
De Aragón and Williams both questioned whether funds could be used for the Southside
Community Center (Southside, SSCC) project. Bohn explained that the project was much
larger and that the fire panel issue was critical to moving it forward.
Williams asked if matching funds were available for the fire panel repair. Mendizabal
explained that the projects being considered were not evaluated for matching funds.
Bohn stated that Southside had matching funds for the resiliency fund, but that did not
consider the fire panel issue. He added that matching funds are not available for the fire
panel repair and that the City would need to provide them.
Osterreich asked why the Cass Park project for a full ADA-compliant bathroom was
included for consideration. Mendizabal explained that while not as urgent a project as
others, it has more solid cost estimates than other projects, it was expected that the
NEPA requirements would not be significantly difficult to meet, there is a significant
funding gap to fill, and the contract process would not be complicated; it is out to bid and
could be completed within the spenddown deadline.
Osterreich asked what the bottom line is for potential contribution. Bohn replied that it
could be any number because the project was bid out, pricing is higher than anticipated,
and they have a project shortfall. They must go to the Common Council to request an
increase in funding.
Williams asked for clarification of the Cass Park restroom location and if more details
would be available before the project was awarded. The location is near the Children’s
Garden, and yes, more details could be made available.
De Aragón asked to confirm that the amount of funds to be reprogrammed is $205,000,
which was confirmed with nods, and questioned the Cass Park estimates, which range
from $92,300 to $286,000. Mendizabal noted that $92,300 is the cost of the electrical
work required for the public restrooms and pavilion, though this need not be the work
that would be funded. Bohn added that the funding gap is $246,000.
Osterreich noted that not enough funds are available to fund all projects, and the
Committee would make a recommendation on an amount. Mendizabal added that five
projects are a significant amount of new projects (and significant amount of back-end
preparation), so not all need to be recommended equally.
7

Osterreich asked if the 215 Cleveland Avenue Project from 2022 could proceed without
$50,000. Bohn replied that it had proceeded, but additional work and expense had been
incurred and could be reimbursed.
Graham asked for an explanation of the Homeless Services Enhancement. Mendizabal
explained that the project came forward from the Deputy City Manager. The Agency is
not at liberty to discuss the project in detail because the City has appointed an Advisory
Committee that has yet to consider the proposal fully. Bohn added that the Advisory
Committee has been tasked with addressing encampments on public property and
finding an alternative to Southwest (behind Wegmans) that may be more structured.
Graham commented that the Southside, Cleveland Avenue, and Cass Park projects seem
likely candidates for the spenddown timeframe. De Aragón agreed.
Williams expressed being uncomfortable with considering the Homeless Services
Enhancement and the handicapped parking lot on Green Street near Tompkins County
Mental Health as project candidates.
Osterreich expressed that she personally found Homeless Services Enhancement and the
parking lot near Tompkins County Mental Health to be of considerable value for the
affected populations and a higher priority if more information were available.
De Aragón commented that the two projects Osterreich mentioned seemed least
developed and least ready for the quick use of funds.
Mendizabal explained that there is a proposal for the Homeless Services Enhancement,
but she and Bohn were not sure whether the Advisory Committee would meet before the
December IURA Board meeting.
Williams commented that he was strongly in favor of the Cass Park project and not in
favor of additional funding for the 215 Cleveland Avenue project.
In a straw poll, the committee members voted as follows for each of the five proposed
projects:
1) Southside Community Project 4-0
2) 215 Cleveland Avenue 3-1
3) Cass Park (some contribution) 3-2
4) Homeless Services Enhancement 1-3 [?]
5) Handicapped Parking on Green Street 4-0
Osterreich listed Handicapped Parking at $20,000 and suggested $50,000 for Cass Park
funding. She questioned the amount for Southside.
Mendizabal noted that costs may be adjusted and that she will need to check back with
the project contacts.
8

Chair Osterreich reviewed that the Committee members were recommending funding for
Southside, 215 Cleveland Avenue, some contribution to Cass Park, and the Green Street
handicapped parking lot. It was noted that it was difficult for the Committee to
determine the merits of the proposed Homeless Services Enhancement, due to the lack of
publicly available details (including details available to the Committee). This may have
affected the Committee’s ability to support it.
VI. Other Business
A. IURA Grant Summary
Report provided for review at the meeting.
B. Staff Report
Mendizabal commented that many items were merged in the discussion above.
VII. Motion to Adjourn
None. Meeting adjourned at approximately 10:58 a.m.
NIC/AM/sd
9

Program Year 2025
HUD Entitlement Grant Program
FUNDING APPLICATION
PUBLIC SERVICES PROJECTS
SUMMARY INFORMATION
Total Public Services funding will be limited to approximately $95,400 (15% of CDBG entitlement grant), for all projects.
GENERAL INFORMATION
Applicant Legal Name:
Project Name:
Funding Amount Requested:
PROJECT INFORMATION
Project Location(s):
Project Goal(s)
(be specific and succinct):
Priority Need(s) Which Project
Will Address (Consolidated Plan):
Total Number of People to Be %City of Ithaca % Below
Served: Residents: 80% AMI:
Characteristics of People to Be
Served (i.e., youth, elderly,
disabled, formerly incarcerated,
homeless, etc.):
Proposed Use of Requested
Funds
(i.e., staff salaries, materials,
participant stipends, etc.):
Total BudgetedMatching
Total Project Cost:
Funds:
CONTACT INFORMATION
Head of Agency Information
Name:
Title:
Address:
Phone Number:
E‐Mail Address:
Application Contact Information
Name:
Title:
Address:
Phone Number:
E‐Mail Address:
Public Services Application Page 1 of 9

PROJECT DESCRIPTION
In the space below, provide a clear project summary that contains a description of the proposed project, including
services and activities that will be provided. Include the Census tract number in which the project will be located (see
Application Instructions).
INSERT EXCEL BUDGET SPREADSHEET(S)IMMEDIATELY AFTER THIS PAGE.
Public Services Application Page 2 of 9

PUBLIC SERVICES PROJECT BUDGET | Historic Ithaca, Inc.
SOURCES
AMOUNT AMOUNT % OF TOTAL
FUNDING SOURCE TITLE
SECURED* UNSECURED** BUDGET
FY2025 Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Public Service $0 $20,000 6.90%
FY2025 CDBG (Economic Development) $0 $67,500 23.29%
Park Foundation 1 $35,729 $0 12.33%
Park Foundation 2 $135,469 $0 46.74%
Significant Elements Sales $31,155 $0 10.75%
TOTAL SECURED & UNSECURED FUNDING $202,353 $87,500 100%
TOTAL PROJECT BUDGET $289,853 100%
LEVERAGE OF SECURED FUNDING PERCENTAGE 70%
* Supporting documentation is required for amounts listed as secured.
** Please be sure to list all unsecured funding amounts (e.g., funding applied for, but not yet received).
USES
PROPOSED CDBG
PROPOSED
PERSONNEL EXPENSES: POSITION TITLES AMOUNT TOTAL
(SALARY/WAGES + OTHER
FRINGE)
Work Preserve Manager - FT (100%) $4,800 $35,500 $40,300
WP Trainer 1 - PT (100%) $4,575 $17,230 $21,805
WP Trainer 2 - PT (100%) $4,575 $17,230 $21,805
SE Retail Trainer - FT (33%) $1,775 $9,205 $10,980
SE Manager - FT (33%) $1,775 $19,375 $21,150
HI Executive Director $0 $30,245 $0
HI Bookkeeping Service $0 $12,262 $12,262
A-TOTAL PROPOSED PERSONNEL BUDGET $17,500 $141,047 $128,302
PROPOSED CDBG
PROPOSED
NON-PERSONNEL EXPENSES: LINE ITEM/TYPE AMOUNT TOTAL
(SALARY/WAGES + OTHER
FRINGE)
Supplies $0 $7,649 $7,649
Space costs (Project Operations) $0 $14,039 $14,039
Insurance $2,500 $10,000 $12,500
Utilities $0 $7,618 $7,618
Stipends/Retention Bonuses $0 $12,000 $12,000
*Other Expenses (list below):
*Furniture/Fixtures/Truck Expenses $0 $5,000 $5,000
*Communications $0 $3,500 $3,500
* Misc. (out of pocket expenses) $0 $1,500 $1,500
B-TOTAL PROPOSED NON-PERSONNEL BUDGET $2,500 $64,806 $67,306
(A+B) TOTAL PROPOSED PROJECT BUDGET $20,000 $205,853 $225,853

PROJECT DESCRIPTION (cont.)
Explain how the amount of funding requested is justified, taking into account other available sources of funding for the
project type. Explain how and when the cost estimates for the project were prepared. Provide the name, title,
company/organization name, and qualifications of the individual who prepared the cost estimates.
Does the project require coordination with, or participation of, another entity or organization? If so, how will you ensure
the project’s successful and timely completion?
Public Services Application Page 3 of 9

POPULATION SERVED & PROJECT IMPACT
Describe the population the project will serve, being sure to include income levels (i.e., 30% AMI, 50% AMI, 80% AMI),
and any special needs characteristics (e.g., disabled, elderly, homeless). How has the project been designed to address
the specific needs of this population?
Explain the project goal(s). How will each goal be measured and documented to confirm whether or not it has been
met?
Public Services Application Page 4 of 9

POPULATION SERVED & PROJECT IMPACT (cont.)
Will your project advance the City’s goal of ending and preventing homelessness? How?
Will your project advance the City’s goal of moving people out of poverty? How?
Public Services Application Page 5 of 9

PROMOTION OF FAIR HOUSING
How will your project address any of the factors contributing (“Contributing Factors”) to fair housing issues and
problems in the City of Ithaca? Refer to: Explanation of IURA Assessment of Fair Housing Contributing Factors document.
Public Services Application Page 6 of 9

ORGANIZATIONAL CAPACITY
Describe your organization’s experience in successfully implementing projects of similar scope and comparable
complexity to the proposed project.
Describe your staffing plan for the proposed project. Indicate what percentage of each staff member’s time will be
allocated to this project and how many other projects, in addition to the one proposed, each staff member will be
responsible for. If you are requesting funds to pay staff salaries, please explain how the proposed project will be
impacted, if full funding is not awarded. If the project is collaborative, explain how participating organizations will work
together and who will be the lead.
Public Services Application Page 7 of 9

PAST IURA FUNDING
If your organization received funding from the IURA in the past two program years, please complete the following
table(s):
2023 Project Name:
Amount of Funding Awarded:
Amount Reimbursed to Date:
Total Number of Unduplicated Clients to Be Served:
Total Number of Unduplicated Clients Served to Date:
2024 Project Name:
Amount of Funding Awarded:
Amount Reimbursed to Date:
Total Number of Unduplicated Clients to Be Served:
Total Number of Unduplicated Clients Served to Date:
PROJECT SCHEDULE
Cumulative
% of Project
Month Specify Project Milestone/Actions Completed Amount of CDBG
Budget
Funds Expended
November 2025
December 2025
January 2026
February 2026
March 2026
April 2026
May 2026
June 2026
July 2026
August 2026
September 2026
October 2026
November 2026
TOTAL:
 Note: Assume contracts will be executed by NOVEMBER 1, 2025, so that funds may be drawn that month.
Public Services Application Page 8 of 9

Fundraising Application Addendum: Fundraising Initiatives
Historic Ithaca (HI) has a diverse funding mix for our operations for 2025 with 59.7%
local grants, and 10.8% private store revenues and individualized giving are funds
specifically earmarked to Work Preserve (WP). WP is one of HI’s 3 primary program
areas. For WP specifically, HI has secured 70.1% of funds in the next year but needs
the IURA grants to offset this budget. WP staff were given 2-year employment promises
in 2024 with the potential for renewal with successful grants. Without it, staff cuts will be
inevitable.
Private: Significant Elements retail store sales revenue which has decreased slightly
after 2 years of pandemic-high revenues in 2020 and 2021. Inflation and post pandemic
behaviors have affected sales revenues. Approximately 15% of sales revenue will
support WP in 2025; sales are guaranteed. Online store development are initiatives for
2025 & 2026 to gain maximum profits.
In addition to store sales we are now collecting individual donors specific to the WP
program. In 2024 this number broke $1,000 and we are confident to be able to increase
that this year. Through tabling events such as GreenStar’s partners for change, of which
we were selected to represent our organization during Q2 April, May, and June. In May
we will be the featured organization. We will also be hosting a Monks Gives Back
evening June 18, 2025 where 50% of all proceeds made in the restaurant that evening
will be donated back to our organization. In 2021 we were able to raise an additional
$2,500 through this event alone and are expecting this year to be more successful with
a longer lead time to get the word out. All funding efforts are directed by HI’s new
2023-2028 Strategic Plan; all Board, staff and members of the community participated
in developing the Plan. The staff’s action items, related funding plans and outcomes are
now in motion.
State Grants: HI is one of few preservation organizations in the nation to have a
workforce development program and is a highlight for our NYS Council on the Arts
(NYSCA) grant. In 2025, we were awarded a 2-year contract of $49,500 per year which
covers partial operational costs for the preservation and administrative staff; the in-kind
match for WP. Another NYSCA capital grant application was successful and provides
funding for a full roof repair on our administrative building.
Local Grants: The two year Park Foundation Youth Education grant awarded in June of
2024 ensures $45,000 for FY 2025. We plan to reapply for 2026-2027. A separate fund,

Park Foundation Sustainable Ithaca, is funded at $300,000 for two years (2024 and
2025) to recruit, incentivize, educate and train WP participants. This has already
increased WP staff pay, time and benefits, and is affording the organization to hire a
part time WP Coordinator.
SIGNIFICANT ELEMENTS REVENUE: By hosting WP within the SE’s retail space,
participants engage in activities that help to bolster the store’s revenue. By repairing
and restoring donated items participants learn valuable skills such as woodworking and
lamp rewiring. Their work not only contributes to the success of the store but many
participants get to see the direct impact their work has on the circular economy within
Tompkins County. The store revenues are unrestricted income and therefore, a critical
funding source for the WP program. By using a portion of the store’s income for
outreach and marketing through tabling events at job fairs, local festivals, and
second-hand markets provide opportunities for WP to recruit and fundraise. To bolster
income SE has increased visibility on social media with some sales taking place from
Instagram and Facebook Marketplace posts.
CONTRIBUTIONS & SUPPORT: For FY2025 WP is projected to receive $1,500 from
direct contributions. In 2023, HI started “Preservation Champions,” a monthly giving
program that received $5,500 total in contributions in FY2024 and is expected to
increase in FY2025. HI sends 3 appeal letters each year with one letter focused on the
direct impact gifts of support have had on a WP participant and the program overall.
Over the many years of SE and the WP program we have developed a robust network
of regular shoppers that are made up of homeowners, renters, landlords, and
contractors that reaches across state lines. This network continues to shop with us
intentionally to support our mission which engages with the community through
advocacy, education, and empowerment.

CERTIFICATION & SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS
☐
By checking this box and providing the following information, I certify the statements made in this application are
true and correct, and I am authorized to submit this application on behalf of my organization.
_______________________________________________________________________ _____________________
Name Date
__________________________________________________ ___________________________________________
Organization Title/Role
_________________________________________________________ ____________________________________
E‐Mail Address Phone Number
Is your organization a 501(c)(3)? Yes ☐ No ☐
Federal Tax ID: _______________
DUNS #: ____________________
Required Attachments:
 Excel budget page
 Resumés of key staff and/or consultants who will be responsible for this activity
 List of your organization’s current board members
 Letter(s) of commitment from any other individuals or entities (outside your own organization) whose
participation is required for project completion
 Evidence of commitment for any funds indicated as “secured” in your project budget
 Most recent Form 990 or tax returns for applicant entity (only 1 copy needed)
Optional Attachments:
 Letters of support
 Program materials (e.g., brochures, program guidelines, outreach materials)
Public Services Application Page 9 of 9

Updated Project Summary:
Historic Ithaca’s Preservation Training Program serves low and moderate-income youth with barriers
to employment by offering individualized, skills-based course modules that intentionally weave
together hands-on learning with soft-skill development. The preservation trades—carpentry,
refinishing, electrical, metalwork, and related disciplines—offer participants both a distinct technical
knowledge base and a strong foundation for the transferable workplace skills needed in any job
environment. The Preservation Training Program provides a supportive, structured setting led by
expert instructors in our fully equipped workshop space, located in Census Tract #10 (service area:
City of Ithaca).
Participants join the program to build confidence and fluency in historic building practices and
preservation ethos, while also strengthening math, reading, and spatial reasoning skills; collaborative
work habits; professional behavior; time management; and attention to detail. Soft-skill development
is purposefully and seamlessly integrated throughout the program, allowing hands-on preservation
work to shine as the primary driver toward broader job-readiness and long-term success.
The program is right-sized to serve up to 15 students annually through small, highly individualized
cohorts, with training sessions ranging from 2 to 14 weeks. Participants come from a wide range of
backgrounds, often shaped by challenging or complex circumstances. Our skills trainers are not only
highly knowledgeable, but deeply compassionate, working at an appropriate pace to meet students
where they are and to build confidence alongside tangible, hands-on accomplishments. Program
activities include:
• Hands-on Training in Preservation: Practical instruction in the safe use of tools, hardware,
finishes, and the core concepts required for work in the historic building trades.
• Historic Ethos & Attention to the Built Environment: An integrated understanding of the
“why” behind preservation and its relevance to daily life—at work and beyond—fostering
research skills, curiosity, and respect for the spaces in which we exist together.
• Personalized Skills Development: Participants build on demonstrated strengths and interests,
take ownership of daily projects, set timelines, and practice effective collaboration in a
dynamic work environment.
• Goal Setting and Leadership: Guided practice in identifying personal employment goals and
developing clear plans and timelines for achievement alongside a mentor.
• Job Preparation: Exposure to employment opportunities within the field, support in
identifying positions aligned with individual interests and skills, and conversations with
mentors about potential applications and career pathways.
Historic Ithaca onboards participants into its skills and job-readiness program on an ongoing, annual
basis through deep and sustained partnerships with New Roots Charter School, TST BOCES, The
Learning Web, Tompkins County WFNY, and other community collaborators. Since its inception in
2010, the Preservation Training Program has worked closely with these partners to expand access
and impact for LMI and marginalized youth, as well as adults facing barriers to employment, by
directly engaging participants from their communities. This collaborative framework is central to the
program’s strength and a defining element of what makes it both effective and unique.

(cid:36)(cid:40)(cid:23)(cid:32)(cid:30)(cid:24)(cid:1)(cid:38)(cid:26)(cid:37)(cid:41)(cid:30)(cid:24)(cid:26)(cid:38)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:37)(cid:35)(cid:31)(cid:26)(cid:24)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:23)(cid:40)(cid:25)(cid:28)(cid:26)(cid:39)(cid:21)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:37)(cid:35)(cid:31)(cid:26)(cid:24)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:12)(cid:16)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:51)(cid:1)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:45)(cid:49)(cid:50)(cid:47)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:43)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:50)(cid:44)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:42)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:10)
(cid:12)(cid:10)(cid:8)(cid:7)(cid:11)(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:5)(cid:2)(cid:5)(cid:3)(cid:5)(cid:6)
(cid:38)(cid:35)(cid:40)(cid:37)(cid:24)(cid:26)(cid:38)
(cid:22)(cid:33)(cid:35)(cid:40)(cid:34)(cid:39)(cid:1) (cid:22)(cid:33)(cid:35)(cid:40)(cid:34)(cid:39)(cid:1) (cid:3)(cid:1)(cid:35)(cid:27)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:35)(cid:39)(cid:22)(cid:32)(cid:1)
(cid:8)(cid:19)(cid:13)(cid:6)(cid:10)(cid:13)(cid:9)(cid:1)(cid:17)(cid:14)(cid:19)(cid:16)(cid:5)(cid:7)(cid:1)(cid:18)(cid:10)(cid:18)(cid:11)(cid:7)
(cid:38)(cid:26)(cid:24)(cid:40)(cid:37)(cid:26)(cid:25) (cid:40)(cid:34)(cid:38)(cid:26)(cid:24)(cid:40)(cid:37)(cid:26)(cid:25) (cid:23)(cid:40)(cid:25)(cid:28)(cid:26)(cid:39)
(cid:24)(cid:34)(cid:12)(cid:10)(cid:12)(cid:15)(cid:1)(cid:22)(cid:49)(cid:47)(cid:47)(cid:54)(cid:48)(cid:43)(cid:53)(cid:57)(cid:1)(cid:23)(cid:39)(cid:55)(cid:39)(cid:46)(cid:49)(cid:50)(cid:47)(cid:39)(cid:48)(cid:53)(cid:1)(cid:21)(cid:46)(cid:49)(cid:37)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:51)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:53)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:22)(cid:23)(cid:21)(cid:25)(cid:5)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:54)(cid:36)(cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:37)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:55)(cid:43)(cid:37)(cid:39) (cid:2)(cid:1)(cid:11)(cid:17)(cid:6)(cid:10)(cid:10)(cid:10)(cid:8)(cid:10)(cid:10) (cid:7) (cid:12)(cid:17)(cid:8)(cid:14)(cid:12)(cid:3)
(cid:30)(cid:35)(cid:51)(cid:45)(cid:1)(cid:24)(cid:49)(cid:54)(cid:48)(cid:38)(cid:35)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:49)(cid:48)(cid:1)(cid:22)(cid:49)(cid:47)(cid:47)(cid:54)(cid:48)(cid:43)(cid:53)(cid:57)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:38)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:51)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:53) (cid:7) (cid:2)(cid:1)(cid:14)(cid:15)(cid:6)(cid:10)(cid:10)(cid:10)(cid:8)(cid:10)(cid:10) (cid:17)(cid:12)(cid:8)(cid:15)(cid:18)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:35)(cid:39)(cid:22)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:38)(cid:26)(cid:24)(cid:40)(cid:37)(cid:26)(cid:25)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:1)(cid:40)(cid:34)(cid:38)(cid:26)(cid:24)(cid:40)(cid:37)(cid:26)(cid:25)(cid:1)(cid:27)(cid:40)(cid:34)(cid:25)(cid:30)(cid:34)(cid:28) (cid:2)(cid:17)(cid:13)(cid:8)(cid:11)(cid:11)(cid:11) (cid:12)(cid:11)(cid:11)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:35)(cid:39)(cid:22)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:37)(cid:35)(cid:31)(cid:26)(cid:24)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:23)(cid:40)(cid:25)(cid:28)(cid:26)(cid:39) (cid:2)(cid:17)(cid:13)(cid:8)(cid:11)(cid:11)(cid:11) (cid:12)(cid:11)(cid:11)(cid:3)
(cid:4) (cid:8)(cid:26)(cid:21)(cid:21)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:25)(cid:16)(cid:19)(cid:15)(cid:1)(cid:12)(cid:20)(cid:11)(cid:26)(cid:18)(cid:13)(cid:19)(cid:25)(cid:9)(cid:25)(cid:16)(cid:20)(cid:19)(cid:1)(cid:16)(cid:24)(cid:1)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:22)(cid:26)(cid:16)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:12)(cid:1)(cid:14)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:1)(cid:9)(cid:18)(cid:20)(cid:26)(cid:19)(cid:25)(cid:24)(cid:1)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:24)(cid:25)(cid:13)(cid:12)(cid:1)(cid:9)(cid:24)(cid:1)(cid:24)(cid:13)(cid:11)(cid:26)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:12)(cid:6)
(cid:4)(cid:4) (cid:7)(cid:17)(cid:13)(cid:9)(cid:24)(cid:13)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:13)(cid:1)(cid:24)(cid:26)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:1)(cid:25)(cid:20)(cid:1)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:24)(cid:25)(cid:1)(cid:9)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:1)(cid:26)(cid:19)(cid:24)(cid:13)(cid:11)(cid:26)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:12)(cid:1)(cid:14)(cid:26)(cid:19)(cid:12)(cid:16)(cid:19)(cid:15)(cid:1)(cid:9)(cid:18)(cid:20)(cid:26)(cid:19)(cid:25)(cid:24)(cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:13)(cid:6)(cid:15)(cid:6)(cid:5)(cid:1)(cid:14)(cid:26)(cid:19)(cid:12)(cid:16)(cid:19)(cid:15)(cid:1)(cid:9)(cid:21)(cid:21)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:13)(cid:12)(cid:1)(cid:14)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:5)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:26)(cid:25)(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:25)(cid:1)(cid:28)(cid:13)(cid:25)(cid:1)(cid:23)(cid:13)(cid:11)(cid:13)(cid:16)(cid:27)(cid:13)(cid:12)(cid:3)(cid:6)
(cid:40)(cid:38)(cid:26)(cid:38)
(cid:36)(cid:37)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:35)(cid:38)(cid:26)(cid:25)(cid:1) (cid:36)(cid:37)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:35)(cid:38)(cid:26)(cid:25)(cid:1)
(cid:15)(cid:7)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:14)(cid:13)(cid:13)(cid:7)(cid:11)(cid:1)(cid:7)(cid:20)(cid:15)(cid:7)(cid:13)(cid:17)(cid:7)(cid:17)(cid:4)(cid:1)(cid:15)(cid:14)(cid:17)(cid:10)(cid:18)(cid:10)(cid:14)(cid:13)(cid:1)(cid:18)(cid:10)(cid:18)(cid:11)(cid:7)(cid:17) (cid:39)(cid:35)(cid:39)(cid:22)(cid:32)
(cid:24)(cid:25)(cid:23)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:22)(cid:33)(cid:35)(cid:40)(cid:34)(cid:39) (cid:35)(cid:39)(cid:29)(cid:26)(cid:37)
(cid:31)(cid:50)(cid:39)(cid:37)(cid:43)(cid:35)(cid:46)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:51)(cid:49)(cid:44)(cid:39)(cid:37)(cid:53)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:27)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:35)(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:6)(cid:1)(cid:24)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:17)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:47)(cid:39)(cid:9)(cid:56)(cid:35)(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:52)(cid:50)(cid:39)(cid:48)(cid:53)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:48)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:51)(cid:49)(cid:44)(cid:39)(cid:37)(cid:53)(cid:1)(cid:11)(cid:15)(cid:5) (cid:2)(cid:11)(cid:12)(cid:6)(cid:10)(cid:14)(cid:13) (cid:2)(cid:13)(cid:1)(cid:11)(cid:6)(cid:18)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:8)(cid:14)(cid:12) (cid:2)(cid:14)(cid:13)(cid:6)(cid:19)(cid:12)(cid:10)
(cid:34)(cid:49)(cid:54)(cid:53)(cid:42)(cid:1)(cid:31)(cid:45)(cid:43)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:32)(cid:51)(cid:35)(cid:43)(cid:48)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:6)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:32)(cid:20)(cid:1)(cid:12)(cid:10)(cid:1)(cid:56)(cid:45)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:11)(cid:10)(cid:10)(cid:3)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:40)(cid:1)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:47)(cid:39)(cid:9)(cid:56)(cid:35)(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:52)(cid:50)(cid:39)(cid:48)(cid:53)(cid:1)(cid:49)(cid:48)(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:51)(cid:49)(cid:44)(cid:39)(cid:37)(cid:53)(cid:1)(cid:11)(cid:15)(cid:5) (cid:2)(cid:12)(cid:6)(cid:11)(cid:19)(cid:14) (cid:2)(cid:15)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:18)(cid:10)(cid:16)(cid:8)(cid:14)(cid:15) (cid:2)(cid:18)(cid:6)(cid:10)(cid:10)(cid:10)
(cid:22)(cid:21)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:35)(cid:39)(cid:22)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:37)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:35)(cid:38)(cid:26)(cid:25)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:26)(cid:37)(cid:38)(cid:35)(cid:34)(cid:34)(cid:26)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:23)(cid:40)(cid:25)(cid:28)(cid:26)(cid:39) (cid:2)(cid:12)(cid:15)(cid:8)(cid:13)(cid:14)(cid:17) (cid:2)(cid:14)(cid:1)(cid:18)(cid:8)(cid:17)(cid:19)(cid:14)(cid:10)(cid:19)(cid:18) (cid:2)(cid:16)(cid:12)(cid:8)(cid:20)(cid:13)(cid:11)
(cid:36)(cid:37)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:35)(cid:38)(cid:26)(cid:25)(cid:1) (cid:36)(cid:37)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:35)(cid:38)(cid:26)(cid:25)(cid:1)
(cid:13)(cid:14)(cid:13)(cid:2)(cid:15)(cid:7)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:14)(cid:13)(cid:13)(cid:7)(cid:11)(cid:1)(cid:7)(cid:20)(cid:15)(cid:7)(cid:13)(cid:17)(cid:7)(cid:17)(cid:4)(cid:1)(cid:11)(cid:10)(cid:13)(cid:7)(cid:1)(cid:10)(cid:18)(cid:7)(cid:12)(cid:3)(cid:18)(cid:21)(cid:15)(cid:7) (cid:39)(cid:35)(cid:39)(cid:22)(cid:32)
(cid:24)(cid:25)(cid:23)(cid:28)(cid:1)(cid:22)(cid:33)(cid:35)(cid:40)(cid:34)(cid:39) (cid:35)(cid:39)(cid:29)(cid:26)(cid:37)
(cid:31)(cid:54)(cid:50)(cid:50)(cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:34)(cid:49)(cid:54)(cid:53)(cid:42)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:38)(cid:54)(cid:37)(cid:35)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:49)(cid:48)(cid:5) (cid:2)(cid:19)(cid:16)(cid:15) (cid:2)(cid:12)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:15)(cid:15)(cid:14)(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:14) (cid:2)(cid:13)(cid:6)(cid:15)(cid:12)(cid:10)
(cid:31)(cid:50)(cid:35)(cid:37)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:37)(cid:49)(cid:52)(cid:53)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:4)(cid:30)(cid:51)(cid:49)(cid:44)(cid:39)(cid:37)(cid:53)(cid:1)(cid:29)(cid:50)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:35)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:49)(cid:48)(cid:52)(cid:9)(cid:24)(cid:35)(cid:37)(cid:43)(cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:39)(cid:52)(cid:1)(cid:48)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:38)(cid:52)(cid:5) (cid:2)(cid:12)(cid:17)(cid:14) (cid:2)(cid:17)(cid:1)(cid:12)(cid:15)(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:11) (cid:2)(cid:11)(cid:6)(cid:10)(cid:10)(cid:10)
(cid:26)(cid:48)(cid:52)(cid:54)(cid:51)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:37)(cid:39) (cid:2)(cid:16)(cid:14)(cid:17) (cid:2)(cid:11)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:17)(cid:11)(cid:12)(cid:8)(cid:19)(cid:10) (cid:2)(cid:12)(cid:6)(cid:13)(cid:16)(cid:10)
(cid:33)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:39)(cid:52) (cid:2)(cid:18)(cid:17)(cid:17) (cid:2)(cid:12)(cid:1)(cid:6)(cid:13)(cid:12)(cid:12)(cid:8)(cid:15)(cid:18) (cid:2)(cid:13)(cid:6)(cid:12)(cid:10)(cid:10)
(cid:23)(cid:21)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:35)(cid:39)(cid:22)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:37)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:35)(cid:38)(cid:26)(cid:25)(cid:1)(cid:34)(cid:35)(cid:34)(cid:9)(cid:36)(cid:26)(cid:37)(cid:38)(cid:35)(cid:34)(cid:34)(cid:26)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:23)(cid:40)(cid:25)(cid:28)(cid:26)(cid:39) (cid:2)(cid:13)(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:17)(cid:15) (cid:2)(cid:18)(cid:1)(cid:8)(cid:14)(cid:12)(cid:17)(cid:10)(cid:12)(cid:14) (cid:2)(cid:12)(cid:11)(cid:8)(cid:11)(cid:19)(cid:11)
(cid:5)(cid:22)(cid:7)(cid:23)(cid:6)(cid:1)(cid:39)(cid:35)(cid:39)(cid:22)(cid:32)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:37)(cid:35)(cid:36)(cid:35)(cid:38)(cid:26)(cid:25)(cid:1)(cid:36)(cid:37)(cid:35)(cid:31)(cid:26)(cid:24)(cid:39)(cid:1)(cid:23)(cid:40)(cid:25)(cid:28)(cid:26)(cid:39) (cid:2)(cid:12)(cid:18)(cid:8)(cid:11)(cid:11)(cid:11) (cid:2)(cid:15)(cid:1)(cid:16)(cid:8)(cid:11)(cid:11)(cid:11)(cid:10)(cid:11)(cid:11) (cid:2)(cid:17)(cid:13)(cid:8)(cid:11)(cid:11)(cid:11)

Historic Ithaca Project 15 Schedule: updated 12/2025
Cumulative Amt of Funds
Month Project Milestone/Actions % of Project Budget
Expended
11/1/25 Ongoing rolling recruitment / ongoing training $ 1 ,416.67 8.33%
12/1/25 1+ TST BOCES & 4+ NRCS Participants *end* $ 2 ,833.34 16.67%
1/1/26 1+ TST BOCES & 4+ NRCS Participants *start* $ 4 ,250.01 25%
2/1/26 Ongoing rolling recruitment / ongoing training $ 5 ,666.68 33%
3/1/26 Ongoing training with current participants $ 7 ,083.35 42%
4/1/26 Ongoing training with current participants $ 8 ,500.02 50%
5/1/26 1 TST BOCES - semester end $ 9 ,916.69 58%
6/1/26 4+ NRCS Participants - semester end $ 11,333.36 67%
7/1/26 Summer session *start* $ 12,750.03 75%
8/1/26 Summer session *end* $ 14,166.70 83%
9/1/26 1 TST BOCES & 4+ NRCS Participants *start* $ 15,583.37 92%
10/1/26 Ongoing rolling recruitment / ongoing training $ 17,000.00 100%
11/1/26 Ongoing rolling recruitment / ongoing training $ - -
TOTAL: $ 17,000.00 100%

Attachment A: Mayoral Advisory Groups on Legislative Policy
Housing
Kayla Matos, Ducson Nguyen, Tiffany Kumar, Clyde Lederman
Vision Statement
Ensure every Ithacan has access to safe, affordable, and dignified housing, while enabling smart,
sustainable growth that strengthens neighborhoods and our local economy.
Strategic Goals
1. Add 4,300 new housing units by 2030, including 1,600 deeply affordable units and 900 new
for-sale units to support pathways to ownership to address demand, reduce upward pressure
on prices, and enable population and workforce growth.
2. Reduce housing cost burden by 10% citywide, focusing on renters and low-to-moderate
income households, through expanded affordability tools, tenant protection measures, and
housing supply interventions.
3. End unsheltered homelessness through a Housing First approach and the development of
permanent supportive housing, in partnership with County and nonprofit providers.
Economic and Community Development
Kayla Matos, Kris Haines-Sharp, Patrick Kuehl, Margaret Fabrizio
Vision Statement
Advance a resilient, inclusive, and innovative-driven local economy that reflects community values –
one grounded in broad-based ownership, quality employment, cultural vitality, and equitable
opportunity. This vision will be realized through strategic land use, investment in sustainable
infrastructure, and vibrant commercial corridors.
Strategic Goals
1. Double the City's GDP growth rate over five years through coordinated land use,
infrastructure, and innovation investments.
2. Expand access to economic opportunity, especially for historically underrepresented and
marginalized communities, through targeted workforce development, public-private
partnerships, new business development support, code modernization and streamlining, and
neighborhood-level investment.
3. Strengthen and diversify neighborhood commercial nodes and downtown through planning,
capital investment, and small-scale manufacturing or green production zones.
Public Works and Operations
Ducson Nguyen, Kris Haines-Sharp, David Shapiro
Vision Statement
Deliver efficient, equitable, and climate-resilient public infrastructure and operations that enhance
quality of life, support sustainable growth, and strengthen community trust between the community
and local government. Through modernization and innovation, ensure that City services are
responsive, future-ready, and inclusive of all residents.
Strategic Goals
1. Reinvest in and maintain critical infrastructure systems—including streets, water, sewer, and
stormwater—to meet current and anticipated future demand. Reduce deferred maintenance,
enhance reliability, and ensure systems are adaptable to climate change and population
growth.
2. Improve operational efficiency through targeted investments in personnel, training, fleet
modernization, technology upgrades, and integrated data systems. Embed equity and

accountability into operational practices to ensure consistent, high-quality service and
communication across all neighborhoods.
3. Coordinate infrastructure and capital planning with citywide sustainability, accessibility, and
housing objectives. Strengthen interdepartmental collaboration, integrate community input,
and use capital investments as tools to advance long-term priorities.
Finance
David Shapiro, Tiffany Kumar, Clyde Lederman
Vision Statement
Promote a stable, transparent, and forward-looking fiscal foundation that sustains core services,
enables strategic investment, and ensures equitable resource allocation across the community.
Strategic Goals
1. Maintain long-term structural balance and proactively pursue financial resilience while
keeping annual tax levy increases within the State tax cap.
2. Expand non-property tax revenue through economic growth, external partnerships, and
innovation in service delivery.
3. Improve transparency, equity, and performance in budgeting through participatory
processes, performance metrics, and long-term financial planning, policies, and forecasting.
Public Safety
Phoebe Brown, Ducson Nguyen, Tiffany Kumar
Vision Statement
Advance a holistic, equitable, and community-centered public safety system that prioritizes
prevention, trust-building, and well-coordinated emergency response.
Strategic Goals
1. Expand and institutionalize unarmed and community-based crisis response as a complement
to traditional policing.
2. Strengthen coordination and communication among police, fire, EMS, and mental health
responders to ensure effective, equitable, and timely emergency responses.
3. Build trust and accountability through proactive engagement, transparency, and recruitment
strategies that reflect the values and diversity of our community.
Sustainability, Adaptability, and Resilience
Kris Haines-Sharp, David Shapiro, Pierre Saint-Perez, Patrick Kuehl
Vision Statement
Build a just, climate-resilient, and regenerative future by embedding sustainability, adaptability, and
resilience into all aspects of City planning, policy, and operations. Create systems that not only
mitigate environmental harm but actively restore ecological health, protect vulnerable populations,
and position the community to thrive amid a changing climate and evolving economic landscape.
Strategic Goals
1. Advance emissions reductions across buildings, transportation, and infrastructure in
alignment with the Ithaca Green New Deal, state climate targets, and global best practices.
Leverage partnerships, policies, and investments to scale impact quickly and equitably.
2. Strengthen the community’s capacity to withstand and recover from climate-related shocks,
including extreme weather, energy disruptions, and threats to food and water security.
Prioritize support for vulnerable populations and neighborhoods most at risk.

3. Embed sustainability, adaptation, and equity into municipal budgeting, capital planning,
procurement, land use, and departmental decision-making. Develop consistent frameworks
and accountability tools to ensure climate goals are reflected in City operations and long-
term strategies.
Human Services and Quality of Life
Kayla Matos, Phoebe Brown, Patrick Kuehl, Margaret Fabrizio
Vision Statement
Promote a healthy, inclusive, and vibrant community where every resident has equitable access to
opportunities, services, and spaces that support physical, mental, and social well-being.
Strategic Goals
1. Increase access to culturally competent mental health, addiction, and wellness resources
through community-based initiatives, partnerships, and advocacy with Federal, State, and
local governments.
2. Expand access to quality-of-life infrastructure, including parks, public spaces, and libraries,
particularly for underserved neighborhoods, working families, retirees, and youth.
3. Strengthen neighborhood resilience and social connection through community-building,
participatory programs, and investment in civic infrastructure.
Intergovernmental Relations
Pierre Saint-Perez, Margaret Fabrizio, Clyde Lederman
Vision Statement
Strengthen the City’s relationships with County, regional, state, and federal partners to improve
service delivery, secure external funding, and advance shared priorities for the greater Ithaca
community.
Strategic Goals
1. Deepen alignment, communication, collaboration with elected leaders and administration
officials across Tompkins County to support and coordinate service delivery, leverage shared
infrastructure, and reduce duplication.
2. Position the City to effectively compete for state and federal funding by prioritizing grant
readiness, strategic partnerships, and proactive advocacy.
3. Advance collaboration, shared identity, and operational efficiencies through strategic
partnership with the Town of Ithaca, including existing and expanded shared services,
coordinated planning, and long-term governance alignment to improve outcomes for all
Ithacans.

Policy Alignment Requirement for Council Agenda Items
WHEREAS, the Common Council of the City of Ithaca has adopted vision statements and strategic
goals through the Mayoral Advisory Committees on Legislative Policy; and
WHEREAS, the Council is committed to ensuring that legislative and policy-facing actions reflect
these adopted priorities; and
WHEREAS, the Council also recognizes that certain routine or procedural actions—such as roster
amendments, appointments, ministerial approvals, and other operational items necessary for the
day-to-day functioning of the City—come before Council for action but do not carry policy
significance;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that all legislative proposals (including ordinances,
resolutions, budgetary actions, and policy briefings) submitted for Council consideration that may
substantively implicate City policy objectives shall include a Policy Alignment Statement identifying
how the proposal reflects the Council’s adopted vision statements and strategic goals; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Mayor, pursuant to section C-11 of the Ithaca City
Charter, shall review Policy Alignment Statements for completeness and may provide commentary
on alignment for Council consideration; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that purely procedural or administrative items brought before
Council—such as roster amendments, appointments, ministerial approvals, or other non-policy
actions necessary for the day-to-day operations of the City—shall be exempt from the Policy
Alignment Statement requirement, but may still include a brief explanatory note for transparency;
and
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that nothing in this Resolution shall be construed to transfer day-
to-day administrative authority from the City Manager to the Mayor or Council, but rather to ensure
that substantive legislative proposals appropriately reflect Council’s priorities adopted pursuant to its
broad policymaking authority.

November 2025
ON TOTAL TOTAL Total Expenditures
SCHEDULE HUD ENTITLEMENT ACTIVITIES SPONSOR BUDGET EXPENDED UNEXPENDED % SPENT November
2021 HOME ARP Activity
ok 24.0 HOME-ARP Admin IURA 182,001.75 79,669.22 102,332.53 44% $1,296.82
HOME ARP-Formula funds (Activities TBD) 1,031,343.25 0.00 1,031,343.25 0% $0.00
Total 1,213,345.00 79,669.22 1,133,675.78 7%
2021 HOME Activities
complete 1.0 110 Auburn Street Homeowner Project INHS 24,999.00 24,999.00 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 2.0 Homeowner Rehab32 INHS 57,170.80 57,170.80 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 5.0 511 S. Plain Street For-Sale Duplex21, 31 INHS 97,850.00 97,850.00 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 6.0 Housing Scholarship Program2,40 The Learning Web 71,685.08 71,685.08 0.00 100% $0.00
ok 7.0 Security Deposit Asst for Vunerable Households Catholic Charities 74,000.00 72,712.62 1,287.38 98% $0.00
complete 23.0 2021 HOME Admin IURA 33,471.50 33,471.50 0.00 100% $0.00
2021 Home Unallocated21,32, 34,40,41,45 0.00 0.00 0.00 N/A
Total 359,176.38 357,889.00 1,287.38 100%
2022 CDBG Activities
ok 2.0 Homeowner Rehab INHS 136,123.31 78,855.69 57,267.62 58% $0.00
complete 3.0 Minor Repair Program INHS 40,000.00 40,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 6.0a Security Deposit Asst Delivery Catholic Charities 2,500.00 2,500.00 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 7.0 Green Job Opportunities Through ReUse Training Finger Lakes ReUse 61,934.65 61,934.65 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 8.0 Work Preserve Job Training Historic Ithaca, Inc. 67,500.00 67,500.00 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 9.0 Hospitality Employment Training Program GIAC 50,000.00 50,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 10.0 Catholic Charities Building INHS 66,170.44 66,170.44 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 11.0 West End Pedestrian Improvements City of Ithaca 55,000.00 55,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 12.0 2-1-1 Information & Referral HSC 20,000.00 20,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 13.0 Job Readiness Historic Ithaca, Inc. 20,000.00 20,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 14.0 Immigrant Services Catholic Charities 30,000.00 30,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 15.0 GIAC Computer Lab GIAC 10,689.96 10,689.96 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 16.0 Pre-Apprentice Program Work Services41 Black Hands Universal 10,650.00 10,650.00 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 18.0 2022 CDBG Admin IURA 126,666.60 126,666.60 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 20.0 FLRU Job Retention Finger Lakes ReUse 98,025.60 98,025.60 0.00 100% $0.00
complete Economic Development Loan Fund IURA 50,000.00 50,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00
2022 CDBG unallocated33, 39, 41 1,350.00 0.00 1,350.00 N/A
Total 846,610.56 787,992.94 58,617.62 93%
2022 HOME Activities
ok 1.0 215 Cleveland Ave. For-Sale Home INHS 50,000.00 48,600.00 1,400.00 97% $0.00
ok 2.0 Homeowner Rehab INHS 12,517.50 0.00 12,517.50 0% $0.00
complete 4.0 Aurora Street & Morris Ave. Revitalization Habitat for Humanity 70,000.00 70,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00
ok 5.0 Sears Street Development INHS 92,140.40 90,567.55 1,572.85 98% $0.00
complete 6.0 Security Deposit Asst for Vunerable Households Catholic Charities 74,000.00 74,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 19.0 2022 HOME Admin32 IURA 31,913.70 31,913.70 0.00 100% $0.00
2022 Home Unallocated21 0.00 0.00 0.00 N/A
Total 330,571.60 315,081.25 15,490.35 95%
2023 CDBG Activities
NO 2.0 Homeowner Rehab33 INHS 146,250.00 0.00 146,250.00 0% $0.00
complete 3.0 Minor Repair Program INHS 40,000.00 40,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00
canceled 4.0 CHT Sears Street Development39 INHS 0.00 0.00 0.00 0% $0.00
ok 8.0 Buidling Quality Career Paths Through ReUse Finger Lakes ReUse 78,595.00 78,448.28 146.72 99.80% $0.00
ok 9.0 Work Preserve Job Placements Historic Ithaca, Inc. 67,500.00 66,060.13 1,439.87 98% $0.00
ok 10.0 HETP GIAC 54,320.00 52,374.59 1,945.41 96% $0.00
ok 11.0 Shared Kitchen Ithaca Friends of Ithaca Farmers Market 32,500.00 0.00 32,500.00 0% $0.00
complete 12.0 2-1-1 Information & Referral HSC 32,000.00 32,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 13.0 Job Readiness Historic Ithaca, Inc. 13,657.00 13,657.00 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 14.0 Immigrant Services Catholic Charities 40,000.00 40,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 15.0 A Place to Stay Catholic Charities 10,000.00 10,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 16.0 2023 CDBG Admin IURA 127,542.80 127,542.80 0.00 100% $0.00
ok Economic Development Loan Fund IURA 141,182.40 1,182.40 140,000.00 1% $0.00
complete 7.0 SJCS Sober Living Reintegration Project39 St. John's Comm. Services 14,849.87 14,849.87 0.00 100% $0.00
2023 CDBG unallocated 0.00 0.00 0.00 N/A
Total 798,397.07 476,115.07 322,282.00 60%
2023 HOME Activities
ok 4.0 CHT Sears Street Development34, 38 INHS 100,000.00 98,719.05 1,280.95 99% $15,705.00
ok 5.0 312 S. Plain Street Duplex Habitat for Humanity 95,061.60 94,061.60 1,000.00 98.95% $0.00
complete 6.0 Security Deposit Asst for Vunerable Households Catholic Charities 37,500.00 37,500.00 0.00 100% $0.00
canceled 7.0 SJCS Sober Living Reintegration Services38 St. John's Community Services 0.00 0.00 0.00 0% $0.00
complete 17.0 2023 HOME Admin IURA 33,326.40 33,326.40 0.00 99% $0.00
complete 8. HQS Inspections38 Independent contractor 2,500.00 2,500.00 0.00 100% $0.00
2023 Home Unallocated41,45 0.00 0.00 0.00 N/A
Total 268,388.00 266,107.05 2,280.95 99%
2024 CDBG Activities
ok 4.0 Minor Repair Program43 INHS 36,508.00 16,894.21 19,613.79 46% $0.00
ok 5a.0 Housing Inspections for Security Deposit Assistant IURA Service Contrtactor 2,500.00 0.00 2,500.00 0%. $0.00
ok 6.0 Career & Resources Program Black Hands Universal 6,670.00 1,314.00 5,356.00 20% $0.00
ok 7.0 Expanded ReUse Training Opportunities Finger Lakes ReUse 137,480.00 70,197.77 67,282.23 51% $18,466.06
ok 8.0 Work Preserve Job Placements Historic Ithaca, Inc. 67,500.00 25,372.88 42,127.12 38% $8,524.69
ok 9.0 200 Cecil A. Malone Dr. Pedestrian Improvements City of Ithaca 160,000.00 0.00 160,000.00 0% $0.00
ok 10.0 DICC ADA Upgrades & Modifications DICC 20,620.00 4,939.39 15,680.61 24% $4,939.39
complete 11.0 2-1-1 Information & Referral HSC 17,020.00 17,020.00 0.00 100% $0.00
complete 12.0 A Place to Stay for Homeless Catholic Charities 15,000.00 15,000.00 0.00 100% $3,750.00
ok 13.0 Housing Scholarships Personnel Support The Learning Web 13,130.00 9,000.00 4,130.00 69% $9,000.00
complete 14.0 Immigrant Services Catholic Charities 20,000.00 20,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00
ok 15.0 Job Readiness Historic Ithaca, Inc. 9,500.00 9,414.47 85.53 99% $0.00
complete 16.0 Security Deposit Asst Intensive Staffing Catholic Charities 3,000.00 3,000.00 0.00 100% $750.00
ok 17.0 Collaborative Street Outreach Program OAR 20,150.00 9,918.56 10,231.44 49% $0.00
ok 18.0 2024 CDBG Admin IURA 130,406.20 119,510.41 10,895.79 92% $6,505.38
2024 CDBG unallocated43 3,492.00 0.00 3,492.00 N/A
Economic Development Loan Fund 150,054.80 1,000.00 149,054.80 $0.00
Total 813,031.00 322,581.69 490,449.31 40%
2024 HOME Activities
Canceled 1.0 The Beacon44 INHS 6,055.80 6,055.80 0.00 100% $0.00
ok 2.0 113-115 Cleveland Ave. INHS 120,000.00 0.00 120,000.00 0% $0.00
ok 3.0 Housing Scholarship Program41 The Learning Web 84,060.00 35,403.20 48,656.80 42% $18,342.20
ok 5.0 Security Deposit Asst for Vunerable Households Catholic Charities 85,630.00 81,625.00 4,005.00 95% $0.00
complete 19.0 2024 HOME Admin IURA 24,416.20 24,416.20 0.00 100.0% $20.66
2024 Home Unallocated44 0.00 0.00 0.00 N/A
Total 320,162.00 147,500.20 172,661.80 46%
Page 1 of 2

November 2025
ON TOTAL TOTAL Total Expenditures
SCHEDULE HUD ENTITLEMENT ACTIVITIES SPONSOR BUDGET EXPENDED UNEXPENDED % SPENT November
2025 CDBG Activities
ok 1.0 209 West State Street INHS 78,968.40 0.00 78,968.40 0% $0.00
ok 2.0 610 West Court Street Habitat for Humanity 80,000.00 0.00 80,000.00 0% $0.00
ok 4.0 Minor Repair Program INHS 45,000.00 0.00 45,000.00 0% $0.00
ok 6.0 ReUse, IT & Clean Energy Job Skills Training FLRU 148,540.00 0.00 148,540.00 0% $0.00
ok 7.0 Hospitality Employment Training Program GIAC 95,400.00 0.00 95,400.00 0% $0.00
NO 8.0 Work Preserve Job Placements Historic Ithaca, Inc. 67,500.00 0.00 67,500.00 0% $0.00
NO 9.0 Southside Community Center Upgrades Southside Community Center 70,400.00 0.00 70,400.00 0% $0.00
ok 10.0 ReUse Materials Access Program (ReMap) FLRU 7,300.00 0.00 7,300.00 0% $0.00
ok 11.0 2-1-1 Information & Referral HSC 18,200.00 0.00 18,200.00 0% $0.00
ok 12.0 A Place to Stay for Homeless Catholic Charities 10,000.00 0.00 10,000.00 0% $0.00
ok 13.0 Housing Scholarships Personnel Support The Learning Web 13,600.00 0.00 13,600.00 0% $0.00
NO 14.0 ISP Catholic Charities 30,000.00 0.00 30,000.00 0% $0.00
ok 15.0 Job Readiness Historic Ithaca, Inc. 17,000.00 0.00 17,000.00 0% $0.00
ok 16.0 Security Deposit Asst Intensive Staffing Catholic Charities 6,000.00 0.00 6,000.00 0% $0.00
ok 17.0 2025 CDBG Admin IURA 136,183.60 0.00 136,183.60 0% $0.00
2025 CDBG unallocated 0.00 0.00 0.00 N/A $0.00
Economic Development Loan Fund 16,826.00 0.00 16,826.00 $0.00
Total 840,918.00 0.00 840,918.00 0%
2025 HOME Activities
ok 1.0 209 West State Street INHS 42,098.20 0.00 42,098.20 0% $0.00
ok 3.0 Housing Scholarship Program The Learning Web 95,340.00 0.00 95,340.00 0% $0.00
ok 5.0 Security Deposit Assistance45 Catholic Charities 96,000.00 0.00 96,000.00 0% $0.00
ok 18.0 2025 HOME Admin IURA 24,598.41 0.00 24,598.41 0% $0.00
2025 HOME Unallocated 0.00 0.00 0.00 N/A
Total 258,036.61 0.00 258,036.61 0%
$51,935.52
$0.00
Total Unexpended Funds $4,389.23
Unexpended CDBG Entitlement Funds 1,263,212.13 $56,324.75
Unexpended CDBG Program Income Committed to Action Plan Activities 449,054.80 $14,628.25
CDBG Revolving Loan Fund Balance (#02 Bank Balance excluding interest) 334,319.54 $38,752.48
Unexpended HOME Entitlement Funds 1,583,432.87 $25,047.21
Unexpended CDBG Program Income (included in Revolving Loan Fund Balance (#02 bank Acct Above)) 0.00 $11,990.81
CDBG Program Income Unassigned 0.00 $68,753.22
Unexpended HOME Program Income 55,473.70 $0.00
HOME Program Income Unassigned 55,473.70 $0.00
Unexpended HUD Funds (Excluding CV Funds) 3,180,964.54 $0.00
$0.00
1.5 CDBG Spend Down Ratio Analysis (must be less than 1.5 by June 1st of each year): $0.00
CDBG Spend Down Ratio = total unexpended CDBG funds/most recent annual CDBG award $0.00
Most Recent Annual CDBG Award: 680,918 $215,496.72
1.5 x Most Recent CDBG Award: 1,021,377
Current Unexpended CDBG Funds: 1,597,531.67
Current CDBG Spend Down Ratio: 2.3461
Compliance With 1.5 CDBG Spend Down Ratio: NO
Amount Required to be Expended by 6/1 to Meet CDBG Spend Down Ratio: 576,154.67
CDBG Timeliness Monthly Expenditures (Target $75,645/month)
Annual Amount Required to be Expended by 6/1 (Expected Unexpended CDBG funds less 1.5 x Most Recent CDBG Award) 907,740.46
Monthly Spend Down Required to Meet Target 75,645.04
Actual Spend Down for Current Month 56,324.75
Met Per Month Target ($75,645/month) NO
YTD Spend down Required to Meet Target 378,225.19
YTD Actual Spend Down 215,496.72
Met YTD Target NO
Page 2 of 2