In-Person Hybrid Meetings: Members of the public who would like to deliver VERBAL comments at a meeting (3-min. max.) may do
so in person at City Hall or remotely using the Zoom link and log-on credentials listed on the agenda. WRITTEN public comments may
108 E. Green St. be submitted before the meeting, using the instructions listed on the agenda. Pls. refer to the IURA Public In-Person/Hybrid Meetings
Ithaca, NY 14850 Policy for more detailed information and further instructions. LIVE-STREAM VIDEO: A non-interactive YouTube live-stream of the
(607)274-6565 meeting can also be viewed at: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC7RtJN1P_RFaFW2IVCnTrDg. Because of a slight delay in
launching the live-stream, the video may begin a few minutes before the meeting is formally convened.
AGENDA
IURA GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE (GC)
9:00 A.M., Friday, April 17, 2026
Common Council Chambers, Third Floor
108 E. Green St., Ithaca, NY 14850
Join Zoom Meeting: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81332267174?pwd=U29WdXI1UmU3SHVSSjkwUWp5ODk5UT09
Meeting ID: 881 8231 5052
Passcode: kHJ6hQ
One-Tap Mobile: +16465588656,,88182315052#,,,,*720434# US (New York)
Dial by Your Location: +1 646 558 8656 US (New York)
PUBLIC COMMENTS
WRITTEN public comments may be e-mailed until 3:00 p.m.,
I. Call to Order
the day before the meeting to: cpyott@cityofithaca.org.
Members of the public who would prefer to deliver VERBAL
comments at the meeting (3-min. max.) should either
II. Agenda Additions/Deletions
appear in person or use above Zoom link and log-in
credentials (for video) or dial-in number and log-in
III. Public Comments (3 min. max.) credentials (for telephone).
IV. Review of Meeting Minutes: January 16, 2026
V. New Business
1. 2025 IURA Financial Audit — Resolution
2. Review of Investment Guidelines — Resolution
3. 2025 Public Authorities Law (PAL) Reporting — Resolution
4. Amendment to Independent Contractor Agreement for Accounting Services — Resolution
VI. Old/Other Business
A. City Policy Priorities
B. IURA Monthly Grants, Loans, & Leases Report: February 2026 — Report
C. CDBG Timely Expenditure — Report
D. Staff Report
E. Next Meeting: Friday, July 17, 2026
VII. Adjournment

Approved/Adopted: x/x/25
108 E. Green St.
Ithaca, NY 14850
(607) 274-6565
MEETING MINUTES
ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE (GC)
9:00 A.M., Friday, January 16, 2026
Common Council Chambers, Third Floor
108 E. Green St. (City Hall) │ Ithaca, NY 14850
Present: Kathy Schlather, Chairperson; Donna Fleming, Vice-Chairperson; George McGonigal
Excused: Susan Cummings; Ellen McCollister
Vacancy: 1
Staff: Nels Bohn; Charles Pyott [virtual]
Guests: None
I. Call to Order
Chairperson Schlather called the meeting to order at 9:07 A.M.
II. Agenda Additions/Deletions
None.
III. Verbal/Written Public Comments
None.
IV. Review of Meeting Minutes: October 17th, 2025
Fleming moved, seconded by McGonigal to approve the meeting minutes, with no modifications.
Carried Unanimously: 3-0
V. New Business: IURA Budget
A. Procurement – Independent Contractors
1. Community Development Consulting: The Harrison Studio
Background:
• Contractor has provided services for over 15 years.
• RFPs are issued every 3 years; one response received (from the incumbent contractor).
• The Harrison Studio’s Rates have held steady from the prior year.

Governance Committee
January 16, 2026
Page 2 of 7
Key Discussion Points:
• Independent underwriting provides third-party risk assessment and protects public investment.
• One-year term used due to uncertain future funding levels.
• Contract ceiling is higher than the budgeted amount to allow flexibility if workload increases.
Fleming moved, seconded by McGonigal:
2026 Procurement of Community Development Consulting Services —
H. Sicherman dba The Harrison Studio
WHEREAS, the contract with H. Sicherman & Company, Inc./The Harrison Studio (Sicherman)
providing community development consulting services, including loan underwriting, expires on
February 29, 2026, and
WHEREAS, in accordance with IURA procurement policy and regulations contained in 2 CFR Part 200
for procurement of professional services, the IURA issued a competitive Request for Proposals for
legal services on December 20, 2025, and
WHEREAS, the RFP was sent to the current IURA contractor, firms that indicated prior interest or
responded to prior RFPs, and published as a legal ad in the Ithaca Journal, and
WHEREAS, the IURA received the following proposal:
• H. Sicherman &Company, Inc. dba The Harrison Studio
WHEREAS, per applicable procurement regulations, a contractor selected through an initial
competitive selection process may be renewed for up to two additional one-year terms without
undertaking a new competitive selection process, and
WHEREAS, Sicherman submitted a proposal to continue providing community development services
to the IURA in 2026 at the following hourly rates:
• $175/hour – R. Charles Bell
• $145/hour – Michael Thomas (loan underwriting), and
WHEREAS, the 2026 rates represent a 0.0% increase from the current contract rates for loan
underwriting services, and
WHEREAS, IURA staff is highly satisfied with the quality of services provided by the Harrison Studio,
and
WHEREAS, the 2026 IURA budget authorized a total of $6,000 for community development and loan
underwriting services, and
WHEREAS, on January 16, 2026, the Governance Committee reviewed this matter and
recommended the following action; now, therefore, be it
2

Governance Committee
January 16, 2026
Page 3 of 7
RESOLVED, that IURA Chair is hereby authorized, upon review of IURA legal counsel, to execute a
one-year contract extension to February 28, 2027 for independent contractor community
development consulting services with H. Sicherman & Company, Inc. dba The Harrison Studio, at a
maximum hourly rate of $175 per hour with the total amount not to exceed $8,000, and be it
further
RESOLVED, that the source of such funds for community development consulting services shall be
derived from a variety of funding sources, including, but not limited to, CDBG and HOME funds, and
expenses shall be billed to the appropriate source of funds for which the services were performed.
Carried Unanimously: 3-0
2. Legal Services: Mariette Geldenhuys, Attorney & Mediator
Background:
• Geldenhuys is another trusted, long-time legal services provider.
McGonigal moved, seconded by Fleming:
2026 Procurement of Independent Legal Services: M. Geldenhuys
WHEREAS, the contract for independent legal services with Mariette Geldenhuys, Attorney-at-Law
(Geldenhuys) expires on February 28, 2026, and
WHEREAS, in accordance with IURA procurement policy and regulations contained in 2 CFR Part 200
for procurement of professional services, the IURA issued a competitive Request for Proposals for
legal services on December 22, 2025, and
WHEREAS, the RFP was sent to current IURA contractors, firms that indicated prior interest or
responded to prior RFPs, and published as a legal ad in the Ithaca Journal, and
WHEREAS, the IURA received the following proposals:
• Mariette Geldenhuys, Attorney-at-Law
• The Law Office of Sharon M. Sulimowicz, and
WHEREAS, per applicable procurement regulations, a contractor selected through an initial
competitive selection process may be renewed for up to two additional one-year terms without
undertaking a new competitive selection process, and
WHEREAS, Geldenhuys submitted a proposal to continue providing legal services to the IURA in
2026 at a maximum billing rate of $250 per hour, a 0.0% increase from the current contract rate
of $250 per hour, and
WHEREAS, the IURA staff is highly satisfied with the quality of legal services provided by
Geldenhuys, and
3

Governance Committee
January 16, 2026
Page 4 of 7
WHEREAS, the 2026 IURA budget recommended a total authorized contract amount of $13,000 for
legal services; and
WHEREAS, on January 16, 2026, the Governance Committee reviewed this matter and
recommended the following action; now, therefore, be it
RESOLVED, that IURA Chair is hereby authorized, upon review of IURA legal counsel, to execute a
one-year contract extension through February 28, 2027 for independent contractor legal services
with Mariette Geldenhuys, Attorney and Mediator, at a maximum hourly rate of $250 per hour with
the total amount not to exceed $11,000, and be it further
RESOLVED, that the source of such funds for legal services shall be derived from a variety of
funding sources, including, but not limited to, CDBG and HOME funds, and expenses shall be billed
to the appropriate source of funds for which the services were performed.
Carried Unanimously: 3-0
3. Legal Services: Law Office of Sharon M. Sulimowicz
Background:
• Sulimowicz has significant experience with HOME Investment Partnerships Program (HOME) and
Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) projects.
Fleming moved, seconded by McGonigal:
2026 Procurement of Independent Legal Services: S. Sulimowicz
WHEREAS, the contract for independent legal services with The Law Office of Sharon M. Sulimowicz
(Sulimowicz) expires on February 28, 2026, and
WHEREAS, in accordance with IURA procurement policy and regulations contained in 2 CFR Part 200
for procurement of professional services, the IURA issued a competitive Request for Proposals for
legal services on December 22, 2025, and
WHEREAS, the RFP was sent to current IURA contractors, firms that indicated prior interest or
responded to prior RFPs, and published a legal ad in the Ithaca Journal, and
WHEREAS, the IURA received the following proposals:
• Mariette Geldenhuys, Attorney-at-Law
• The Law Office of Sharon M. Sulimowicz, and
WHEREAS, per applicable procurement regulations, a contractor selected through an initial
competitive selection process may be renewed for up to two additional one-year terms without
undertaking a new competitive selection process, and
4

Governance Committee
January 16, 2026
Page 5 of 7
WHEREAS, Sulimowicz submitted a proposal to continue providing legal services to the IURA in
2026 at a maximum billing rate of $250 per hour, an 11.0% increase from the current contract
rate of $225 per hour, and
WHEREAS, the IURA staff is highly satisfied with the quality of legal services provided by Sulimowicz,
and
WHEREAS, the 2026 IURA budget recommended a total authorized contract amount of $13,000 for
legal services; and
WHEREAS, on January 16, 2026, the Governance Committee reviewed this matter and
recommended the following action; now, therefore, be it
RESOLVED, that IURA Chair is hereby authorized, upon review of IURA legal counsel, to execute a
one-year contract extension through February 28, 2027 for independent contractor legal services
with Mariette Geldenhuys, Attorney and Mediator, at a maximum hourly rate of $250 per hour with
the total amount not to exceed $6,000 unless assigned a project for a Low-Income Housing Tax
Credit project where the counterparty pays for IURA legal services, and be it further
RESOLVED, that the source of such funds for legal services shall be derived from a variety of
funding sources, including, but not limited to, CDBG and HOME funds, and expenses shall be
billed to the appropriate source of funds for which the services were performed.
Carried Unanimously: 3-0
4. Accounting Services: K. Cook
Bohn explained the proposed resolution will provide the IURA with short-term continuity after the departure
of its long-time part-time accountant, Kim Cook, as it recruits her replacement.
Schlather moved, seconded by Fleming:
Independent Accounting Consulting Services – K. Cook
WHEREAS, the IURA part-time Accountant has resigned to take a full-time position with January 16, 2026 as
her last day of employment with the IURA, and
WHEREAS, Ms. Cook has agreed to provide transitional accounting services on an independent contractor
basis through the annual IURA audit scheduled for the second week in February and to train a new IURA
accountant, and
WHEREAS, an IURA search committee is currently interviewing candidates for the Accountant position and
the IURA will benefit from transitional accounting services, and
WHEREAS, the current IURA Accountant earns $40.73 plus an 11% employer contribution to retirement, and
5

Governance Committee
January 16, 2026
Page 6 of 7
WHEREAS, an independent contractor is responsible for both 7.65% employer and 7.65% employee FICA
contributions for Social Security and Medicare, and
WHEREAS, the proposed hourly rate for transitional accounting services is:
$40.73 hourly wage
$4.48 payment in lieu of retirement benefit
$6.23 FICA contributions
$51.44/hour, and
WHEREAS, on January 16, 2026, the Governance Committee reviewed this matter and recommended
the following action; now, therefore, be it
RESOLVED, that IURA Chair is hereby authorized, upon review of IURA legal counsel, to execute an
independent contractor agreement with Jill Cook to provide transitional IURA accounting services
through March 31, 2026 at an hourly rate of $51.44, and be it further
RESOLVED, that the source of such funds for community development consulting services shall be
derived from a variety of funding sources, including, but not limited to, CDBG and HOME funds, and
expenses shall be billed to the appropriate source of funds for which the services were performed, and
be it further
RESOLVED, the IURA thanks Ms. Cook for her 11 years of dedicated service to the Agency.
Carried Unanimously: 3-0
B. Hiring — Fill Vacant IURA Accountant Position
Bohn explained the proposed resolution will enable IURA staff to fill the vacant part-time IURA Accountant
position.
Fleming moved, seconded by McGonigal:
Fill Vacant IURA Accountant Position
WHEREAS, the IURA part-time Accountant has resigned to take a full-time position with January 16, 2026 as
her last day of employment with the IURA, and
WHEREAS, an IURA Accountant search committee includes the following persons:
• Shaianne Osterreich
• Kathy Schlather
• Nels Bohn
• Anisa Mendizabal, and
WHEREAS, the search committee has conducted numerous candidate interviews, and
6

Governance Committee
January 16, 2026
Page 7 of 7
WHEREAS, on January 16, 2026, the Governance Committee reviewed this matter and recommended
the following action; now, therefore, be it
RESOLVED, the IURA Director of Community Development is hereby authorized to offer employment to the
candidate recommended by the IURA search committee to fill the vacant IURA part-time Accountant
position an annual 2026 salary of $46,590.23.
Carried Unanimously: 3-0
VI. Other Business
A. Review of IURA Financials: December 2025
Bohn walked through the Grants Summary and explained that the left-hand “On Schedule” column
calls out any projects that are not on schedule and may need attention. The vast majority of projects
have been progressing well in terms of expenditures and project completion, including projects that
recently received reprogrammed Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program funds (e.g.,
PY2025 Cass Park ADA Public Restroom & Pavilion). Bohn reported all Loan Payments and Lease
Payments are current as of today.
B. Staff Report
Bohn reported a new staff person has been hired by the IURA (“Encampment Response Coordinator”),
who needed to be hired by an E-Verify employer; however, the Encampment Response Coordinator’s
salary and benefits will be paid entirely by the City.
VII. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned by consensus at 9:41 A.M.
— END —
Minutes prepared by S. Dean, edited by C. Pyott/N. Bohn.
7

IURA Governance Committee
Proposed
April 17, 2026
Approval of 2025 IURA Financial Audit Report
WHEREAS, the Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency (IURA) derives the majority of its finances from grants
awarded to the City of Ithaca, and
WHEREAS, for financial reporting purposes, the IURA is a blended component unit of the City of Ithaca
whose financial activity is reported in the Special Grant Fund, a governmental fund of the City of Ithaca
financial statements, and
WHEREAS, the IURA contracts separately from the City to have its finances audited within 90 days of the
end of its fiscal year to comply with the Public Authorities Accountability Act, and
WHEREAS, the IURA received an audited 2025 IURA financial report on April 3, 2026, and
WHEREAS, at its April 17, 2026 meeting, the IURA Governance Committee reviewed the financial report
and attached correspondence; now, therefore, be it
RESOLVED, the IURA hereby approves the Financial Report of the Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency for the
period January 1, 2025 through December 31, 2025, prepared by the accounting firm of Insero & Co.
CPAs LLP.

COMMUNICATION WITH THOSE CHARGED WITH GOVERNANCE
AT THE CONCLUSION OF THE AUDIT
Board of Directors
Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency
Ithaca, New York
We have audited the financial statements of the Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency (the Agency), a
blended component unit of the City of Ithaca, whose activity is reported in the Special Grant Fund, a
governmental fund in the City of Ithaca’s financial statements, for the year ended December 31, 2025,
and have issued our report thereon dated April 3, 2026. Professional standards require that we provide
you with information about our responsibilities under generally accepted auditing standards and
Government Auditing Standards, as well as certain information related to the planned scope and
timing of our audit. We have communicated such information in our letter to you dated
December 12, 2025. Professional standards also require that we communicate to you the following
information related to our audit.
Significant Audit Matters
Qualitative Aspects of Accounting Practices
Management is responsible for the selection and use of appropriate accounting policies. The
significant accounting policies used by the Agency are described in Note 1 to the financial statements.
No new accounting policies were adopted and the application of existing policies was not changed
during 2025. We noted no transactions entered into by the Agency during the year for which there is
a lack of authoritative guidance or consensus. All significant transactions have been recognized in the
financial statements in the proper period.
Accounting estimates are an integral part of the financial statements prepared by management and are
based on management’s knowledge and experience about past and current events and assumptions
about future events. Certain accounting estimates are particularly sensitive because of their
significance to the financial statements and because of the possibility that future events affecting them
may differ significantly from those expected. There were no sensitive estimates affecting the
Agency’s financial statements.
Certain financial statement disclosures are particularly sensitive because of their significance to
financial statement users. The most sensitive disclosures affecting the financial statements were:
The disclosures related to loans receivable in Note 4 to the financial statements.
The financial statement disclosures are neutral, consistent, and clear.
I & C . CPA , LLP
NSERO O S
The Highest Standard | (800) 232-9547 | www.inserocpa.com

Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency
April 3, 2026
Page 2
Difficulties Encountered in Performing the Audit
We encountered no significant difficulties in dealing with management in performing and completing
our audit.
Corrected and Uncorrected Misstatements
Professional standards require us to accumulate all known and likely misstatements identified during
the audit, other than those that are clearly trivial, and communicate them to the appropriate level of
management. No such misstatements were detected as the result of audit procedures.
Disagreements With Management
For purposes of this letter, a disagreement with management is a financial accounting, reporting, or
auditing matter, whether or not resolved to our satisfaction, that could be significant to the financial
statements or the auditors’ report. We are pleased to report that no such disagreements arose during
the course of our audit.
Management Representations
We have requested certain representations from management that are included in the management
representation letter dated April 3, 2026.
Management Consultations With Other Independent Accountants
In some cases, management may decide to consult with other accountants about auditing and
accounting matters, similar to obtaining a “second opinion” on certain situations. If a consultation
involves application of an accounting principle to the Agency’s financial statements or a
determination of the type of auditors’ opinion that may be expressed on those statements, our
professional standards require the consulting accountant to check with us to determine that the
consultant has all the relevant facts. To our knowledge, there were no such consultations with other
accountants.
Other Audit Findings or Issues
We generally discuss a variety of matters, including the application of accounting principles and
auditing standards, with management each year prior to retention as the Agency’s auditors. However,
these discussions occurred in the normal course of our professional relationship and our responses
were not a condition to our retention.
Other Matters
We applied certain limited procedures to the Management’s Discussion and Analysis, which is
required supplementary information (RSI) that supplements the basic financial statements. Our
procedures consisted of inquiries of management regarding the methods of preparing the information
and comparing the information for consistency with management’s responses to our inquiries, the
basic financial statements, and other knowledge we obtained during our audit of the basic financial
statements. We did not audit the RSI and do not express an opinion or provide any assurance on the
RSI.

Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency
April 3, 2026
Page 3
Restrictions on Use
This information is intended solely for the information and use of the Board of Directors, and
management of the Ithaca Urban Renewal Agencyand is not intended to be, and should not be, used
by anyone other than these specified parties.
Respectfully submitted,
Insero & Co. CPAs, LLP
Certified Public Accountants
Ithaca, New York
April 3, 2026

ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
Ithaca, New York
FINANCIAL REPORT
For the Year Ended
December 31, 2025

ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Independent Auditors’ Report 1-3
Required Supplementary Information
Management’s Discussion and Analysis 4-4d
Governmental Fund Financial Statements
Balance Sheet - Special Grant Fund 5
Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balance-
Special GrantFund 6
Notes to Financial Statements 7-12
_________________________________________________________________________________
ReportRequired Under Government Auditing Standards
Independent Auditors’ Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and on
Compliance and Other Matters Based on an Audit of Financial Statements
Performed in Accordance With GovernmentAuditing Standards 13-14
Other Reporting Required by New York State Public Law
Independent Auditors’ Report on Compliance With §2925 (3)(f) of the
New York State Public Authorities Law 15

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
Board of Directors
Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency
Ithaca, New York
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of the Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency (the
Agency), a blended component unit of the City of Ithaca, whose activity is reported in the Special
Grant Fund, a governmental fund in the City of Ithaca’s financial statements, as of and for the year
ended December 31, 2025, and the related notes to the financial statements, which collectively
comprise the Agency’s basic financial statements as listed in the table of contents.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the respective financial position of the fund information of the Ithaca Urban Renewal
Agency, as of December 31, 2025, and the respective changes in financial position thereof for the
year then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States
of America (GAAS) and the standards applicable to financial audits contained in Government
Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller General of the United States. Our responsibilities
under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the
Financial Statements section of our report. We are required to be independent of the Agency and to
meet our other ethical responsibilities, in accordance with the relevant ethical requirements relating
to our audit. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our audit opinions.
Emphasis of Matter
As discussed in Note 1, the financial statements present only the Special Grant Fund and do not
purport to, and do not, present fairly the financial position of the City of Ithaca, as of
December 31, 2025, the changes in its financial position, or, where applicable, its cash flows for the
year then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. Our opinion is not modified with respect to this matter.
I & C . CPA , LLP
NSERO O S
The Highest Standard | (800) 232-9547 | www.inserocpa.com

Responsibilities of Management for the Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and for
the design, implementation, and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and fair
presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error.
In preparing the financial statements, management is required to evaluate whether there are conditions
or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the Agency’s ability to
continue as a going concern for twelve months beyond the financial statement date, including any
currently known information that may raise substantial doubt shortly thereafter.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report
that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not absolute
assurance and therefore is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with GAAS
and Government Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. The
risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from
error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the
override of internal control. Misstatements are considered material if there is a substantial likelihood
that, individually or in the aggregate, they would influence the judgment made by a reasonable user
based on the financial statements.
In performing an audit in accordance with GAAS and Government Auditing Standards, we:
Exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit.
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due
to fraud or error, and design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks. Such
procedures include examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements.
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of the Agency’s internal control. Accordingly, no such opinion
is expressed.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant
accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluate the overall presentation of the
financial statements.
Conclude whether, in our judgment, there are conditions or events, considered in the
aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the Agency’s ability to continue as a going
concern for a reasonable period of time.
2

We are required to communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters,
the planned scope and timing of the audit, significant audit findings, and certain internal control-
related matters that we identified during the audit.
Required Supplementary Information
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires that the
Management’s Discussion and Analysis be presented to supplement the basic financial statements.
Such information, although not a part of the basic financial statements, is required by the
Governmental Accounting Standards Board who considers it to be an essential part of financial
reporting for placing the basic financial statements in an appropriate operational, economic, or
historical context. We have applied certain limited procedures to the required supplementary
information in accordance with GAAS, which consisted of inquiries of management about the
methods of preparing the information and comparing the information for consistency with
management’s responses to our inquiries, the basic financial statements, and other knowledge we
obtained during our audit of the basic financial statements. We do not express an opinion or provide
any assurance on the information because the limited procedures do not provide us with sufficient
evidence to express an opinion or provide any assurance.
Other Reporting Required by Government Auditing Standards
In accordance with Government Auditing Standards, we have also issued our report dated
April 3, 2026, on our consideration of the Agency’s internal control over financial reporting and on
our tests of its compliance with certain provisions of laws, regulations, contracts, and grant
agreements and other matters. The purpose of that report is to describe the scope of our testing of
internal control over financial reporting and compliance and the results of that testing, and not to
provide an opinion on internal control over financial reporting or on compliance. That report is an
integral part of an audit performed in accordance with GovernmentAuditing Standardsin considering
the Agency’s internal control over financial reporting and compliance.
Other Reporting Required by New York State Public Authorities Law
We have also issued our report dated April 3, 2026 on our consideration of the Agency’s compliance
with §2925(3)(f) of the New York State Public Authorities Law. The purpose of that report is to describe
anything that came to our attention that caused us to believe the Agency failed to comply with the
Agency’s Investment Guidelines, the New York State Comptroller’s Investment Guidelines, and
§2925(3)(f) of the New York State Public Authorities Law.
Respectfully submitted,
Insero & Co. CPAs, LLP
Certified Public Accountants
Ithaca, New York
April 3, 2026
3

ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
DECEMBER 31, 2025
The following is a discussion and analysis of the Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency’s (the Agency)
financial performance for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2025. The Agency is a blended
component unit reported in the Special Grant Fund, a special revenue fund of the City of Ithaca. This
section is a summary of the Agency’s financial activities based on currently known facts, decisions,
or conditions. The Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) section is only an introduction
and should be read in conjunction with the Agency’s financial statements, which immediately follow
this section.
The Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency is a public benefit corporation established in 1965 as an urban
renewal agency. The Agency has a corporate identity separate from the City and works in close
conjunction with the City to revitalize urban neighborhoods and strengthen the local economy. The
Agency is composed of the Mayor and four members appointed by the Mayor with the concurring
approval of the Common Council. The Director of Planning and Development for the City of Ithaca
serves as the Executive Director of the Agency.
OVERVIEW OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
This annual report consists of two parts: MD&A (this section) and the financial statements of the
Special Grant Fund.
The financial statements also include notes that explain some of the information in the statements and
provide more detailed data.
Balance Sheet and Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balance
The Agency’s financial statements include the Balance Sheet and Statement of Revenues,
Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balance, and they are reported using the modified accrual basis of
accounting. Under this basis of accounting, revenues are recorded when measurable and available.
Available means collectible within the current period or soon enough thereafter to be used to pay
liabilities of the current period. Material revenues that are accrued include state and federal aid.
Revenues deemed collectible within one year after year end are recognized as revenues in the current
year. If expenditures are the prime factor for determining eligibility, revenues from federal and state
grants are accrued when the expenditure is made.
Expenditures are recorded when incurred. The cost of capital assets is recognized as an expenditure
when received. Exceptions to this general rule are that 1) principal and interest on indebtedness are
not recognized as an expenditure until due; and 2) compensated absences, such as vacation and sick
leave, which vest or accumulate, are charged as an expenditure when paid.
4

ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
DECEMBER 31, 2025
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
The Agency’s fund balance increased by $129,191 for the year ended December 31, 2025, compared
to a $94,123 increase in 2024. Fund balance grew due to the decrease in expenditures, offset
somewhat by lower revenues. Our analysis below focuses on the fund balance (Figure 1) and changes
in fund balance (Figure 2) of the Agency’s fund.
Figure 1
Total
Balance Sheet 2025 2024
Dollar Change
Cash and Cash Equivalents $ 2,083,090 $ 1,914,578 $ 1 68,512
Other Receivables 15,775 14,492 1,283
Loans Receivable 5,642,207 6,084,101 (441,894)
Total Assets 7,741,072 8,013,171 (272,099)
Accounts Payable 137,202 124,385 12,817
Accrued Liabilities 227 - 227
Compensated Absences 27,560 - 27,560
Total Liabilities 164,989 124,385 40,604
Unavailable Revenue 5,642,207 6,084,101 (441,894)
Total Deferred Inflows of Resources 5,642,207 6,084,101 (441,894)
Restricted Fund Balance 1 ,933,876 1 ,804,685 1 29,191
Total Fund Balance $ 1,933,876 $ 1,804,685 $ 1 29,191
Figure 2
Total
Changes in Fund Balance 2025 2024
Dollar Change
Revenues:
Use of Money and Property $ 5,286 $ 4,579 $ 7 07
Departmental Income 637,848 562,508 7 5,340
Federal Sources 852,001 1,181,594 (329,593)
Total Revenues 1,495,135 1,748,681 (253,546)
Expenditures:
Home and Community Services 1,365,944 1,654,558 (288,614)
Total Expenditures 1,365,944 1,654,558 (288,614)
CHANGE IN FUND BALANCE $ 129,191 $ 94,123 $ 3 5,068
4a

ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
DECEMBER 31, 2025
Grant income from the City of Ithaca is determined by the level of funding of the City’s HOME and
CDBG programs by HUD. The Agency continues to create program income from federal funds that
no longer have ongoing federal compliance requirements and uses these funds to further economic
development in the City. Departmental income was down because there were less payments of
principal and interest on loans receivable. Home and community service expenditures decreased
overall due to decreased federal activity.
FACTORS BEARING ON THE AGENCY’S FUTURE
The Agency is navigating reduced real federal funding available to support Agency operations while
facing annual inflationary increases in operating expenses. These fiscal trends require the Agency to
rely on other lines of business to balance its administrative budget. An operating deficit of $60,000 is
anticipated in 2026.
For the past 25 years the Agency has followed prudent budgeting practices resulting in an
approximately $1.9 million fund balance, of which over $500,000 is unrestricted and available to
support any shortfall in the administrative budget.
Budgeted administrative expenses of $461,000 in 2025 have increased 20% since 2020, less than the
25% Consumer Price Index (CPI) increase over the same 5-year period, indicating that the Agency
has controlled expenses. Health insurance expenses continue to outpace inflation and have been offset
by reduced contracted legal expenses. In total, 86% of the operating budget supports personnel
expenses for the 3.63 FTE staff, which staffing level is necessary to meet its contractual obligations
and administrative duties.
The Agency receives revenues from the following major lines of business:
1. Grant Administration of the City of Ithaca’s HUD Entitlement grant program
2. Operation of a small business and rental housing loan program
3. Leasing a small portfolio of real property
4. Undertaking urban renewal projects through acquisition and sale/lease of real property
5. Providing Agency staff professional services to the city
The Agency budget faces a continuation of flat HUD Entitlement administrative grant funding over
a prolonged period of years while inflation increases all operating expenses. Going forward, annual
CDBG/HOME funding is expected to equal 33% of the operating budget, down from a historical
average of 45%. The Agency is fortunate to have access to one-time HOME-ARP administrative
funds, which will contribute $50K to both 2026 and 2027 budgets. This supplemental funding will be
exhausted by 2028.
While the current federal administration sought to defund the HUD Entitlement Grant program
entirely in 2026, the final appropriation adopted in February 2026 provides level funding to the
program reflecting strong bipartisan support for continued funding of the HUD Entitlement Program.
4b

ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
DECEMBER 31, 2025
Management of loan and lease portfolios is anticipated to generate revenue growth commensurate
with inflation.
Urban renewal projects often take multiple years to complete as property is offered for sale/lease, a
project sponsor is selected, terms are negotiated, a disposition and development agreement is
approved, project financing is finalized, and property conveyance is completed. When the project
involves real property owned by the Agency, the financial benefit to the Agency is often deferred
until conveyance of the property is completed to reimburse upfront costs. When the City seeks
Agency participation to redevelop a city-owned property, Agency expenses incurred are reimbursed
as a lump sum in the following fiscal year.
There are four potential urban renewal projects in the pipeline, including Agency-owned development
sites at Inlet Island and Cherry Street Extension. Recently, two City-sponsored urban renewal projects
have been identified as strong candidates for redevelopment. Agency staff time and out-of-pocket
expenses will be reimbursed if these projects advance as anticipated through the Agency for property
disposition. Urban renewal activity is time-intensive for Agency staff and can be expected to generate
approximately $40,000 in reimbursed expenses per year for a major redevelopment project.
Historically, the Agency staff has assisted the City on projects that align with the Agency mission but
have not always received compensation for its services. Going forward, the City has indicated strong
interest in compensating the Agency for staff time incurred on certain City-initiated projects involving
land acquisition, city facility master planning, the Community Development Housing Fund,
development of a housing strategy, and addressing homeless encampments on public property. A
draft MOU between the Agency and the City was drafted by the City to reimburse the Agency for
staff time incurred on selected joint projects. This MOU is anticipated to generate $30,000 in
additional Agency revenue in 2026.
Summary
Going forward, the Agency anticipates that revenues from administering the City’s HUD Entitlement
grant program will continue to erode in real terms. The Agency will make up for this reduction in
revenues by accelerating its other lines of business, especially urban renewal projects and an MOU
with the City to reimburse professional staff expenses incurred for joint City/Agency projects.
The future Agency budget will increasingly rely on revenues derived from urban renewal projects
involving the disposition of real property and reimbursed fees for services provided to the City of
Ithaca. Should there be a shortfall in future years, funds can be drawn from the existing unrestricted
cash accounts exceeding $500,000.
4c

ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
DECEMBER 31, 2025
CONTACTING THE AGENCY’S FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
This financial report is designed to provide a general overview of the Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency’s
finances and to show the Agency’s accountability for the money it receives. If you have questions
about this report or need additional financial information, contact the Agency’s Director, City Hall,
108 E. Green Street, 3rd Floor, Ithaca, New York 14850.
4d

ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
BALANCE SHEET
SPECIAL GRANT FUND
DECEMBER 31, 2025
ASSETS
Cash and Cash Equivalents - Unrestricted $ 1 21,654
Cash and Cash Equivalents - Restricted 1 ,961,436
Other Receivables 1 5,775
Loans Receivable 5 ,642,207
Total Assets $ 7 ,741,072
LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable $ 1 37,202
Accrued Liabilities 2 27
Compensated Absences 2 7,560
Total Liabilities 1 64,989
DEFERRED INFLOWS OF RESOURCES
Unavailable Revenue - Loans Receivable 5 ,642,207
Total Deferred Inflows of Resources 5 ,642,207
FUND BALANCE
Restricted 1 ,933,876
Total Fund Balance 1 ,933,876
Total Liabilities, Deferred Inflows of Resources, and Fund Balance $ 7 ,741,072
See Notes to Financial Statements
5

ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
STATEMENT OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES, AND CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
SPECIAL GRANT FUND
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2025
REVENUES
Use of Money and Property $ 5 ,286
Departmental Income 6 37,848
Federal Sources 8 52,001
Total Revenues 1,495,135
EXPENDITURES
Home and Community Services 1 ,365,944
Total Expenditures 1,365,944
Net Change in Fund Balance 1 29,191
Fund Balance, Beginning of Year 1 ,804,685
Fund Balance, End of Year $ 1 ,933,876
See Notes to Financial Statements
6

ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2025
Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
The financial statements of the Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency (the Agency), a blended
component unit of the City of Ithaca (the City) have been prepared in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) as
applied to government units. The Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) is
the accepted standard setting body for establishing governmental accounting and financial
reporting principles. The more significant of the government's accounting policies are
described below.
Financial Reporting Entity
The Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency is a public benefit corporation established in 1965 as
an urban renewal agency. The Agency has a corporate identity separate from the City and
works in close conjunction with the City to revitalize urban neighborhoods and strengthen
the local economy. The Agency is composed of the Mayor and four members appointed
by the Mayor with the concurring approval of the Common Council. The Director of
Planning and Development for the City of Ithaca serves as the Executive Director of the
Agency.
Through a variety of means, including site acquisition and disposition, the Agency works
to implement the Urban Renewal Plan that seeks to stabilize neighborhoods and enhance
the vitality of the downtown and community. Through the City, the Agency applies for
and receives various grants to address community development needs. On an annual basis,
the Agency manages the City’s HUD Entitlement Grant award of Community
Development Block Grant (CDBG) and Home Investment Partnerships Program (HOME)
funds to undertake activities in the areas of housing, community facilities, public services,
and economic development that benefit Ithaca’s low- and moderate-income
neighborhoods and households or eliminate blighting conditions. In addition, the Agency
administers various economic development loan programs, the Cherry Street Industrial
Park, and leases to facilitate private/public real estate projects.
The City is ultimately responsible for the proper disposition of grant funds and any debt
incurred by the Agency. Because of the close governing, administrative, and financial
relationship with the City, the Agency is considered to be a component unit of the City for
financial reporting purposes, and the Agency’s financial information presented here is to be
presented within the City’s financial statements as the Special Grant Fund as of
December 31, 2025 and for the year then ended.
Basic Financial Statements
The Agency’s basic financial statements include governmental fund financial statements.
The financial transactions of the Agency are reported as a Special Revenue Fund in the
governmental fund financial statements of the City. Fund accounting is designed to
demonstrate legal compliance and to aid financial management by segregating
transactions related to certain government functions or activities.
7

ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2025
Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies -Continued
Basis of Accounting/Measurement Focus
Basis of accounting refers to when revenues and expenditures and the related assets and
liabilities are recognized in the accounts and reported in the financial statements. Basis of
accounting relates to the timing of the measurements made, regardless of the measurement
focus. Measurement focus is the determination of what is measured, such as expenditures
or expenses. The Agency reports on the modified accrual basis of accounting.
Modified Accrual Basis - Under this basis of accounting, revenues are recorded when
measurable and available. Available means collectible within the current period or soon
enough thereafter to be used to pay liabilities of the current period. Material revenues that
are accrued include state and federal aid. Revenues deemed collectible within one year
after year end are recognized as revenues in the current year. If expenditures are the prime
factor for determining eligibility, revenues from federal and state grants are accrued when
the expenditure is made.
Expenditures are recorded when incurred. The cost of capital assets is recognized as an
expenditure when received. Exceptions to this general rule are that 1) principal and
interest on indebtedness are not recognized as an expenditure until due; and 2)
compensated absences, such as vacation and sick leave, which vest or accumulate, are
charged as an expenditure when paid.
Budgetary Compliance
An annual legal budget is not adopted for the Special Grant Fund. Budgetary controls for
the Special Grant Fund are established in accordance with applicable grant agreements.
Deferred Inflows of Resources
In addition to liabilities, the Balance Sheet will sometimes report a separate section for
deferred inflows of resources. This separate financial statement element, deferred inflows
of resources, represents an acquisition of net position that applies to a future period(s) and
so will not be recognized as an inflow of resources (revenue) until that time. The
government has only one type of item, which arises only under a modified accrual basis
of accounting that qualifies for reporting in this category. Accordingly, the item,
unavailable revenue, is reported in the governmental fund balance sheet. The
Governmental Fund reports unavailable revenues from loans receivable. These amounts
are deferred and recognized as an inflow of resources in the period that the amounts
become available.
8

ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2025
Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies -Continued
Loans Receivable
Loans receivable represent amounts owed to the Agency for rehabilitation and economic
development loans. Loans receivable are offset by unavailable revenue in the same
amount. Because the loans are offset by unavailablerevenue, no provision has been made
for uncollectible accounts reported as loans receivable.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
For financial statement purposes, all highly liquid investments with initial maturities of
three months or less are considered cash equivalents.
Compensated Absences
In the event of termination or upon retirement, an employee is entitled to payment for
accumulated vacation time above a certain number of hours and unused compensated
absences.
Insurance
The City assumes the liability for most risk including, but not limited to, property damage
and personal injury liability. Judgments and claims are recorded when it is probable that
an asset has been impaired, or a liability has been incurred, and the amount of loss can be
reasonably estimated.
Use of Estimates
Management uses estimates and assumptions in preparing financial statements. Those
estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported revenues and expenses.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Restricted Resources
When an expense is incurred for purposes for which both restricted and unrestricted net
assets are available, it is the Agency’s policy to apply restricted funds before unrestricted
funds, unless otherwise prohibited by legal requirements.
Equity Classifications
Constraints are broken into five classifications: nonspendable, restricted, committed,
assigned, and unassigned. These classifications serve to inform readers of the financial
statements of the extent to which the government is bound to honor any constraints on
specific purposes for which resources in a fund can be spent.
Nonspendable: Consists of assets inherently nonspendable in the current period either
because of their form or because they must be maintained intact; including prepaid
items, inventories, long-term portions of loans receivable, financial assets held for
resale, and endowments principal.
9

ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2025
Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies -Continued
Equity Classifications - Continued
Restricted: Consists of amounts subject to legal purpose restrictions imposed by
creditors, grantors, contributors, or laws and regulations of other governments and
enforced externally or through constitutional provisions or enabling legislation.
Committed: Consists of amounts subject to a purpose constraint imposed by formal
action of the government’s highest level of decision-making authority prior to the end
of the fiscal year and requires the same level of formal action to remove said constraint.
Assigned: Consists of amounts subject to a purpose constraint representing an intended
use established by the government’s highest level of decision-making authority, or
their designated body or official. The purpose of the assignment must be narrower than
the purpose of the General Fund. In funds other than the General Fund, assigned fund
balance represents the residual amount of fund balance.
Unassigned: Represents the residual classification of the government’s General Fund
and could report a surplus or deficit. In funds other than the General Fund, the
unassigned classification should only be used to report a deficit balance resulting from
overspending amounts restricted, committed, or assigned for specific purposes.
The Agency has not adopted any resolutions to commit fund balance. The Agency’s
policy is to apply expenditures against nonspendable fund balance, restricted fund balance,
committed fund balance, and assigned fund balance. Because the Agency’s activities are
restricted to economic development, remaining fund balance is reported as restricted.
New Accounting Standards
The Agency adopted and implemented the following current Statements of the GASB
effective for the year ended December 31, 2025.
GASB has issued Statement No. 102, “Certain Risk Disclosures,” effective for the
year ended December 31, 2025.
Future Changes in Accounting Standards
GASB has issued Statement No. 103, “Financial Reporting Model Improvements,”
effective for the year ending December 31, 2026.
GASB has issued Statement No. 104, “Disclosure of Certain Capital Assets,” effective
for the year ending December 31, 2026.
Agency management will evaluate the impact future pronouncements may have on its
financial statements and will implement as applicable when material.
10

ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2025
Note 2 Cash and Investments
The Agency’sinvestment policies are governed by State statutes. In addition, the Agency
has its own written investment policy. Agency monies must be deposited in Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insured commercial banks, trust companies, or
credit unions located within the State, preferably located within the City of Ithaca and the
urban renewal project boundary area. The Agency is authorized to use demand accounts
and certificates of deposit. Permissible investments include obligations of the U.S.
Treasury.
Collateral is required for demand and time deposits and certificates of deposit not covered
by federal deposit insurance. Obligations that may be pledged as collateral are obligations
of the United States and its agencies and obligations of the State and its municipalities
and school districts.
Deposits and investments are valued at cost or cost plus interest. Total financial institution
(bank) balances at December 31, 2025 were $2,085,128, which were insured, and
collateral, when required, was held by the Agency’s agent in the Agency’s name. Cash
in the amount of $1,961,436 is reported as restricted and represents the amount of
restricted fund balance.
Note 3 Other Receivables
Other receivables at December 31, 2025 are as follows:
Reimbursements $ 1 5,775
Total $ 1 5,775
Note 4 Loans Receivable
Loans receivable consist of various economic development loans with ranging terms and
interest rates. $531,000 of the loans at December 31, 2025 will be forgiven over time as
long as certain conditions are met by the loan recipient. Activity in loans receivable during
the year follows:
Balance December 31, 2024 $ 6,084,101
Interest Accrued 49,044
Loans Issued 100,000
Loans Written Off/Forgiven (301,868)
Loan Payments (289,070)
Balance December 31, 2025 $ 5,642,207
11

ITHACA URBAN RENEWAL AGENCY
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DECEMBER 31, 2025
Note 5 Compensated Absences
Represents the value of the earned and unused portion of time accrued prior to
December 31, 2025 that will be paid in the subsequent period. For the year ended
December 31, 2025, the amount of compensated absence liability was $27,560.
Note 6 Simplified Employee Pension Plan
The Agency sponsors a Simplified Employee Pension Plan which covers all full-time and
part-time employees. Contributions to the Plan are determined annually by the Board of
Directors. For the year ended December 31, 2025, the amount of pension expense was
$31,180, 11.0% of total gross payroll.
Note 7 Concentrations - Significant Sources of Revenues
During the year ended December 31, 2025, the Agency received $852,001, or 57.0% of its
total revenue, from U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development grants.
Financial Concentrations and Constraints
The Agency has reviewed its concentrations and constraints in accordance with GASB
Statement No. 102, “Certain Risk Disclosures.” Based on this review, no events associated
with said concentrations or constraints have been identified that are more likely than not
to cause a substantial impact requiring additional disclosure.
Note 8 Summary of Significant Commitments and Contingencies
General Information
The Agency is exposed to various risks of loss related to, but not limited to, torts, theft of,
damage to, and destruction of assets, injuries to employees, errors and omissions, and
natural disasters. These risks are covered by commercial insurance purchased from
independent third parties. Settled claims from these risks have not exceeded commercial
insurance coverage for the past three years.
State and Federally Assisted Programs
The Agency receives state and federal grants through the City. These grants are generally
conditioned on compliance with certain statutory, regulatory, and/or contractual
requirements. The Agency makes every effort to comply with all applicable requirements.
However, because these grants are audited from time to time, it is possible that the Agency
or the City will be required, upon audit, to repay portions of the grant monies received
and recorded as revenue in a prior year. Agency and City officials do not anticipate
material grant-in-aid disallowances, and no provision, therefore, is reflected in the basic
financial statements.
Note 9 Related Party Transactions
The City is reimbursed for projects funded through federal grants administered by the
Agency. At December 31, 2025, the Agency owed the City $136,431 in reimbursements.
This amount is included in accounts payable on the accompanying financial statements.
12

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER
FINANCIAL REPORTING AND ON COMPLIANCE AND OTHER MATTERS
BASED ON AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH GOVERNMENT AUDITING STANDARDS
Board of Directors
Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency
Ithaca, New York
We have audited, in accordance with the auditing standards generally accepted in the United States
of America and the standards applicable to financial audits contained in Government Auditing
Standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United States, the financial statements of the
Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency (the Agency), a blended component unit of the City of Ithaca, whose
activity is reported in the Special Grant Fund, a governmental fund in the City of Ithaca’s financial
statements, as of and for the year ended December 31, 2025, and related notes to the basic financial
statements, and have issued our report thereon dated April 3, 2026.
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
In planning and performing our audit of the financial statements, we considered the Agency’s internal
control over financial reporting (internal control) as a basis for designing audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances for the purpose of expressing our opinion on the financial statements,
but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Agency’s internal control.
Accordingly, we do not express an opinion on the effectiveness of the Agency’s internal control.
A deficiency in internal control exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow
management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent,
or detect and correct, misstatements on a timely basis. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a
combination of deficiencies, in internal control such that there is a reasonable possibility that a
material misstatement of the Agency’s financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and
corrected on a timely basis. A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies,
in internal control that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention
by those charged with governance.
Our consideration of internal control was for the limited purpose described in the first paragraph of
this section and was not designed to identify all deficiencies in internal control that might be material
weaknesses or significant deficiencies and therefore, material weaknesses or significant deficiencies
may exist that were not identified. Given these limitations, during our audit we did not identify any
deficiencies in internal control that we consider to be material weaknesses. However, material
weaknesses may exist that have not been identified.
I & C . CPA , LLP
NSERO O S
The Highest Standard | (800) 232-9547 | www.inserocpa.com

Report on Compliance and Other Matters
As part of obtaining reasonable assurance about whether the Agency’s financial statements are free
of material misstatement, we performed tests of its compliance with certain provisions of laws,
regulations, contracts, and grant agreements, noncompliance with which could have a direct and
material effect on the financial statements. However, providing an opinion on compliance with those
provisions was not an objective of our audit, and accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.
The results of our tests disclosed no instances of noncompliance or other matters that are required to
be reported under Government Auditing Standards.
Purpose of This Report
The purpose of this report is solely to describe the scope of our testing of internal control and
compliance and the results of that testing, and not to provide an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Agency’s internal control or on compliance. This report is an integral part of an audit performed in
accordance with Government Auditing Standards in considering the Agency’s internal control and
compliance. Accordingly, this communication is not suitable for any other purpose.
Respectfully submitted,
Insero & Co. CPAs, LLP
Certified Public Accountants
Ithaca, New York
April 3, 2026
14

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT ON COMPLIANCE WITH
§2925(3)(f) OF THE NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC AUTHORITIES LAW
Board of Directors
Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency
Ithaca, New York
We have audited, in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America and the standards applicable to financial audits contained in Government Auditing
Standards, issued by the Comptroller General of the United States, the financial statements of the
Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency (the Agency), a blended component unit of the City of Ithaca, as of
and for the year ended December 31, 2025, and the related notes to the financial statements, which
collectively comprise the Agency’s basic financial statements, and have issued our opinion thereon
dated April 3, 2026.
In connection with our audit, nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe the Agency failed
to comply with the Agency’s Investment Guidelines, the New York State Comptroller’s Investment
Guidelines, or §2925(3)(f) of the New York State Public Authorities Law (collectively, Investment
Guidelines), which are the responsibility of the Agency’s management, insofar as they relate to the
financial accounting knowledge of noncompliance with such Investment Guidelines.
This communication is intended solely for the information and use of the Board of Directors and
management of the Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency, and the Office of the Comptroller of the State of
New York and is not intended to be, and should not be, used by anyone other than these specified
parties.
Respectfully submitted,
Insero & Co. CPAs, LLP
Certified Public Accountants
Ithaca, New York
April 3, 2026
I & C . CPA , LLP
NSERO O S
The Highest Standard | (800) 232-9547 | www.inserocpa.com

MANAGEMENT COMMENT LETTER
Board of Directors
Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency
Ithaca, New York
In planning and performing our audit of the financial statements of the Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency
(the Agency), a blended component unit of the City of Ithaca, as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2025, in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America, we considered the internal control over financial reporting (internal control) as a basis for
designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances for the purpose of expressing our
opinions on the financial statements, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Agency’s internal control. Accordingly, we do not express an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Agency’s internal control.
A deficiency in internal control exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow
management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent,
or detect and correct, misstatements on a timely basis. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a
combination of deficiencies, in internal control, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a
material misstatement of the Agency’s financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and
corrected, on a timely basis.
Our consideration of internal control was for the limited purpose described in the first paragraph and
was not designed to identify all deficiencies in internal control that might be material weaknesses.
Given these limitations during our audit, we did not identify any deficiencies in internal control that
we consider to be material weaknesses. However, material weaknesses may exist that have not been
identified.
We would like to thank you and your staff for the cooperation and support given to us during the course
of the audit. We appreciate the opportunity to be of service to you and look forward to our continued
involvement.
I & C . CPA , LLP
NSERO O S
The Highest Standard | (800) 232-9547 | www.inserocpa.com

Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency
April 3, 2026
Page 2
This communication is intended solely for the information and use of management, the Board of
Directors, others within the Agency and other regulatory agencies and is not intended to be, and
should not be, used by anyone other than these specified parties.
Respectfully submitted,
Insero & Co. CPAs, LLP
Certified Public Accountants
Ithaca, New York
April 3, 2026

Adopted Resolution
IURA Governance Committee
April 17, 2026
Approval of IURA Investment Guidelines
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Public Authorities Accountability Act, as amended, the IURA is
required on an annual basis to review its investment guidelines and report, and
WHEREAS, the IURA originally adopted Investment Guidelines on March 25, 2011, and
WHEREAS, the Director of Community Development prepared an annual 2025 IURA
Investment Report, and
WHEREAS, at their April 17, 2026 meeting, the IURA Governance Committee reviewed the
IURA Investment Guidelines and the 2025 Investment Report; now, therefore, be it
RESOLVED, that the IURA hereby reaffirms its approval of the IURA Investment Guidelines.

Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency
Investment Guidelines
Public Authorities Law (PAL) requires each public benefit corporation to adopt investment
guidelines regarding the investing, monitoring and reporting of funds of the corporation and
annually review and approve such guidelines (section 2925 of PAL).
Investing
The primary investment objective for managing funds of the IURA is to preserve capital and
comply with all applicable regulations and requirements pertaining to the funds managed. A
secondary investment objective is to maximize interest earned on monies managed by the
IURA. A tertiary investment objective is to deposit investment funds in qualified financial
institutions that meet the financial needs of residents and businesses within the IURA service
area. An additional consideration is ease of administration and services offered by depository
institutions, such as the availability of internet banking, including on-line documentation of
cancelled checks and account balances, and free wire transfers.
Because the IURA acts as a pass-through of grant funds from federal agencies to end users, the
grant funding source agency may establish special requirements for management of such funds.
For instance, the US Department of Housing & Urban Development requires that all bank
interest earned on HUD funds be remitted to the US Treasury annually.
Agency monies may be invested in obligations of the US Treasury or deposited in federally
insured commercial banks, trust companies, or credit unions, preferably institutions located
within the City of Ithaca and the urban renewal project boundary area. Agency monies may be
deposited in the above-listed institutions in demand accounts and certificates of deposit.
Collateral is required for demand deposits and certificates of deposit at a minimum of 100% of
all deposits not covered by federal deposit insurance. Obligations that may be pledged as
collateral are obligations of the United States and its agencies and obligations of New York
State and its municipalities and school districts.
Signatories on deposit accounts shall be designated by resolution of the IURA. Only a
designated signatory is authorized to establish investment accounts. Two signatures of
designated signatories shall be required on all checks issued by the IURA.

Monitoring
Investment statements shall be reconciled with the general ledger on a monthly basis. The
reconciliation shall be reviewed by staff to verify that the investment statements and the IURA
balance sheet match on a monthly basis.
No less than annually, the Agency shall review its investment guidelines and its investments.
Reporting
An independent auditor shall review IURA investments on an annual basis as part of the
independent audit of financial statements. The IURA shall review the independent audit and
address any recommendations, concerns or findings.

Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency
Investment Report
2025 Investment Report
2025 investments by the Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency (IURA) comply with the adopted IURA
investment guidelines. All 2025 investments were deposited at Tompkins Community Bank
(formerly known as Tompkins Trust Company), a FDIC-insured bank located within the Ithaca
Urban Renewal Project Boundary Area.
IURA bank deposits totaled $2,085,126.33 as of 12/31/25 and are divided between six savings
accounts and one checking account. $250,000 of this investment amount is covered by FDIC
insurance with the remaining $1,835,126.33 collateralized through a Tri-Party Collateral
Agreement among the IURA, Tompkins Community Bank and The Bank of New York Mellon.
Obligations held as collateral in the Tri-Party Collateral Agreement are obligations of the United
States and its agencies and obligations of the state, its municipalities and its school districts.
The market value of the pledged collateral was $1,835,126.37 as of 12/31/25, which satisfies
the IURA investment policy that requires the value of collateral pledged must equal at least
100% of deposits not covered by federal deposit insurance.
Prepared by N. Bohn

Date Range Balance : 12/31/2025-1/1/2026
@03/30/2026 3:16:36 PM
01- Operating:111044275
Date Opening Balance Collected Balance
01/01/2026 $78,169.96 $78,169.96
14 - Industrial Park:1411044275
Date Opening Balance Collected Balance
01/01/2026 $121,158.59 $121,158.59
15 - CD-RLF/Sect. 17:1511044275
Date Opening Balance Collected Balance
01/01/2026 $58,268.98 $58,268.98
21 - CD-RLF:211044275
Date Opening Balance Collected Balance
01/01/2026 $415,808.33 $415,808.33
31 - UDAG:311044275
Date Opening Balance Collected Balance
01/01/2026 $139,456.87 $139,456.87
41 - HODAG:411044275
Date Opening Balance Collected Balance
01/01/2026 $737,120.79 $737,120.79
Page 1 OF 2

Date Range Balance : 12/31/2025-1/1/2026
@03/30/2026 3:16:36 PM
51 - NonCDBG:511044275
Date Opening Balance Collected Balance
01/01/2026 $535,142.81 $535,142.81
Page 2 OF 2



Proposed Resolution
IURA Governance Committee
April 17, 2026
Approval of Reports Submitted to NYS Authorities Budget Office
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Public Authorities Accountability Act, as amended, the IURA is
required on an annual basis to submit reports to the New York State Authorities Budget Office
(ABO), and
WHEREAS, the IURA Director of Community Development is designated to certify accuracy of the
reporting, and
WHEREAS, the reporting is due to be submitted within 90 days of the end of the fiscal year, and
WHEREAS, it is appropriate that IURA members exercise oversight over the staff reporting to the
ABO, and
WHEREAS, at its meeting of April 17, 2026, the IURA Governance Committee reviewed the
reporting and recommends the following action; now, therefore, be it
RESOLVED, that the IURA hereby approves FY2025 IURA public authority reports submitted to the
New York State Authorities Budget Office, including the following reports:
• Budget report
• Annual report
• Procurement report
• Investment report
• Certified financial audit report

Budget Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency RunDate: 04/15/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
FiscalYearEnding:12/31/2026 CertifiedDate:12/22/2025
Budget & Financial Plan Budgeted Revenues, Expenditures, And Changes in Current Net Assets.
Last Year Current Year Next Year Proposed Proposed Proposed
(Actual) (Estimated) (Adopted)
2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
REVENUE & FINANCIAL SOURCES
Operating Revenues
Charges For Services $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
Rental And Financing Income $903,836.00 $325,534.00 $334,209.00 $344,235.00 $354,562.00 $334,562.00
Other Operating Revenues $277,758.00 $307,816.00 $319,816.00 $329,410.00 $339,293.00 $323,660.00
Non-Operating Revenues
Investment Earnings $4,579.00 $5,286.00 $5,920.00 $5,985.00 $5,265.00 $5,150.00
State Subsidies/Grants $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
Federal Subsidies/Grants $562,508.00 $1,031,106.00 $1,264,670.00 $1,324,612.00 $1,100,837.00 $1,052,703.00
Municipal Subsidies/Grants $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
Public Authority Subsidies $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
Other Nonoperating Revenues $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
Proceeds From The Issuance Of Debt $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
Total revenues and financing sources $1,748,681.00 $1,669,742.00 $1,924,615.00 $2,004,242.00 $1,799,957.00 $1,716,075.00
EXPENDITURES
Operating Expenditures
Salaries And Wages $272,542.00 $283,456.00 $291,959.00 $300,718.00 $309,740.00 $319,031.00
Other Employee Benefits $80,398.00 $83,931.00 $84,441.00 $85,678.00 $86,330.00 $87,721.00
Professional Services Contracts $37,120.00 $43,396.00 $47,986.00 $49,426.00 $50,908.00 $52,436.00
Supplies And Materials $1,137.00 $1,800.00 $2,900.00 $2,900.00 $2,900.00 $2,900.00
Other Operating Expenses $205,778.00 $202,183.00 $392,183.00 $411,182.00 $407,239.00 $379,000.00
Non-Operating Expenditures
Payment Of Principal On Bonds And $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
Financing Arrangements
Interest And Other Financing Charges $3,656.00 $4,484.00 $4,986.00 $4,756.00 $4,999.00 $5,079.00
Subsidies To Other Public Authorities $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
Capital Asset Outlay $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
Grants And Donations $1,053,927.00 $881,087.00 $1,039,305.00 $1,098,444.00 $902,837.00 $861,974.00
Other Nonoperating Expenses $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
Total expenses $1,654,558.00 $1,500,337.00 $1,863,760.00 $1,953,104.00 $1,764,953.00 $1,708,141.00
Capital Contributions $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
Excess (Deficiency) Of Revenues And Capital $94,123.00 $169,405.00 $60,855.00 $51,138.00 $35,004.00 $7,934.00
Contributions Over Expenses
Page 1 of 2

Budget Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency RunDate: 04/15/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
FiscalYearEnding:12/31/2026 CertifiedDate:12/22/2025
The authority's budget, as presented to the Board of Directors, is posted on the following website: http://www.cityofithaca.org/DocumentCenter/View/20209/2026-Adopted-Annual-Budget-PDF
Additional Comments
Page 2 of 2

Annual Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date: 04/08/2026
Governance Information (Authority-Related)
Question Response URL (If Applicable)
1. Has the Authority prepared its annual report on operations and accomplishments for the reporting period as required by Yes https://www.cityofithaca.
section 2800 of PAL? org/DocumentCenter/View/20158/2024-CAPER
2. As required by section 2800(9) of PAL, did the Authority prepare an assessment of the effectiveness of its internal controls? Yes https://www.cityofithacany.
gov/DocumentCenter/View/20999/2025-Separation-of-Duties
3. Has the lead audit partner for the independent audit firm changed in the last five years in accordance with section 2802(4) of Yes N/A
PAL?
4. Does the independent auditor provide non-audit services to the Authority? No N/A
5. Does the Authority have an organization chart? Yes https://www.cityofithacany.
gov/DocumentCenter/View/20997/2026-Organizational-Chart-
PDF
6. Are any Authority staff also employed by another government agency? No
7. Has the Authority posted their mission statement to their website? Yes https://www.cityofithacany.gov/290/Ithaca-Urban-Renewal-
Agency
8. Has the Authority's mission statement been revised and adopted during the reporting period? No N/A
9. Attach the Authority's measurement report, as required by section 2824-a of PAL and provide the URL. http://www.cityofithaca.org/DocumentCenter/View/18321/2023-
2024-HUD-Annual-Program-Year-Letter-formerly-ACA-PDF
Page 1 of 17

Annual Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date: 04/08/2026
Governance Information (Board-Related)
Question Response URL (If Applicable)
1. Has the Board established a Governance Committee in accordance with Section 2824(7) of PAL? Yes N/A
2. Has the Board established an Audit Committee in accordance with Section 2824(4) of PAL? Yes N/A
3. Has the Board established a Finance Committee in accordance with Section 2824(8) of PAL? Yes N/A
4. Provide a URL link where a list of Board committees can be found (including the name of the committee and the date https://www.cityofithacany.
established): gov/DocumentCenter/View/2721/Committee-Structure
5. Does the majority of the Board meet the independence requirements of Section 2825(2) of PAL? Yes N/A
6. Provide a URL link to the minutes of the Board and committee meetings held during the covered fiscal year https://www.cityofithacany.gov/AgendaCenter
7. Has the Board adopted bylaws and made them available to Board members and staff? Yes https://www.cityofithacany.gov/DocumentCenter/View/1494
8. Has the Board adopted a code of ethics for Board members and staff? Yes https://www.cityofithacany.gov/DocumentCenter/View/2765
9. Does the Board review and monitor the Authority's implementation of financial and management controls? Yes N/A
10. Does the Board execute direct oversight of the CEO and management in accordance with Section 2824(1) of PAL? Yes N/A
11. Has the Board adopted policies for the following in accordance with Section 2824(1) of PAL?
Salary and Compensation No N/A
Time and Attendance No N/A
Whistleblower Protection Yes N/A
Defense and Indemnification of Board Members Yes N/A
12. Has the Board adopted a policy prohibiting the extension of credit to Board members and staff in accordance with Section 2824 Yes N/A
(5) of PAL?
13. Are the Authority's Board members, officers, and staff required to submit financial disclosure forms in accordance with Section No N/A
2825(3) of PAL?
14. Was a performance evaluation of the board completed? Yes N/A
15. Was compensation paid by the Authority made in accordance with employee or union contracts? No N/A
16. Has the board adopted a conditional/additional compensation policy governing all employees? No
Page 2 of 17

Annual Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date: 04/08/2026
Board of Directors Listing
Name Cantelmo, Robert G Nominated By Local
Chair of the Board Yes Appointed By Local
If yes, Chair Designated by Elected by Board Confirmed by Senate? N/A
Term Start Date 1/1/2024 Has the Board Member/Designee Signed Yes
the Acknowledgement of Fiduciary Duty?
Term Expiration Date Pleasure of Authority Complied with Training Requirement of No
Section 2824?
Title Does the Board Member/Designee also No
Hold an Elected or Appointed State
Government Position?
Has the Board Member Appointed a Does the Board Member/Designee also Yes
Designee? Hold an Elected or Appointed Municipal
Government Position?
Designee Name Ex-Officio
Name Fleming, Donna Nominated By Local
Chair of the Board No Appointed By Local
If yes, Chair Designated by Confirmed by Senate? No
Term Start Date 8/25/2023 Has the Board Member/Designee Signed Yes
the Acknowledgement of Fiduciary Duty?
Term Expiration Date Pleasure of Authority Complied with Training Requirement of Yes
Section 2824?
Title Does the Board Member/Designee also No
Hold an Elected or Appointed State
Government Position?
Has the Board Member Appointed a Does the Board Member/Designee also Yes
Designee? Hold an Elected or Appointed Municipal
Government Position?
Designee Name Ex-Officio
Page 3 of 17

Annual Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date: 04/08/2026
Name Graham, Karl Nominated By Local
Chair of the Board No Appointed By Local
If yes, Chair Designated by Confirmed by Senate? N/A
Term Start Date 8/1/2012 Has the Board Member/Designee Signed Yes
the Acknowledgement of Fiduciary Duty?
Term Expiration Date Pleasure of Authority Complied with Training Requirement of Yes
Section 2824?
Title Does the Board Member/Designee also No
Hold an Elected or Appointed State
Government Position?
Has the Board Member Appointed a Does the Board Member/Designee also No
Designee? Hold an Elected or Appointed Municipal
Government Position?
Designee Name Ex-Officio
Name Hull, Siobhan Nominated By Local
Chair of the Board No Appointed By Local
If yes, Chair Designated by Confirmed by Senate? No
Term Start Date 11/7/2025 Has the Board Member/Designee Signed Yes
the Acknowledgement of Fiduciary Duty?
Term Expiration Date Pleasure of Authority Complied with Training Requirement of No
Section 2824?
Title Does the Board Member/Designee also No
Hold an Elected or Appointed State
Government Position?
Has the Board Member Appointed a Does the Board Member/Designee also No
Designee? Hold an Elected or Appointed Municipal
Government Position?
Designee Name Ex-Officio
Page 4 of 17

Annual Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date: 04/08/2026
Name Osterreich, Shaianne Nominated By Local
Chair of the Board No Appointed By Local
If yes, Chair Designated by Confirmed by Senate? No
Term Start Date 7/7/2023 Has the Board Member/Designee Signed Yes
the Acknowledgement of Fiduciary Duty?
Term Expiration Date Pleasure of Authority Complied with Training Requirement of No
Section 2824?
Title Does the Board Member/Designee also No
Hold an Elected or Appointed State
Government Position?
Has the Board Member Appointed a Does the Board Member/Designee also No
Designee? Hold an Elected or Appointed Municipal
Government Position?
Designee Name Ex-Officio
Page 5 of 17

Annual Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date: 04/08/2026
Staff Listing
Name Title Group Department/Union Bargainin Full Time/ ExemptBase Actual Overtime PerformanceExtra Pay Other Total Individual If yes, Is the
Subsidiary Name g Unit Part Time Annualizedsalary paid paid by Bonus Compensation/Compensationalso paid by payment
Salary to the Authority Allowances/ another entitymade by
individual Adjustments to perform State or local
the work of government
the Authority
Bohn, Nels Director of Managerial FT Yes $110,552.00 $110,552.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $110,552.00No
Community
Development
Cook, Kim Accountant Profession PT No $74,121.00 $46,590.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $46,590.00No
al
Mendizabal, Community Profession FT No $70,716.00 $70,716.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $70,716.00No
Anisa Developmental
Planner
Pyott, Charles Contracts Operationa FT No $64,100.00 $64,100.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $64,100.00No
Monitor l
Page 6 of 17

Annual Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date: 04/08/2026
Benefit Information
During the fiscal year, did the Authority continue to pay for any of the above mentioned benefits for former staff or individuals affiliated with the Authority after those No
individuals left the Authority?
Board Members
Name Title Severance Payment Club Use of Personal Auto TransportationHousing Spousal / Tuition Multi-Year None of Other
Package for Memberships Corporate Loans Allowance Dependent Assistance Employmentthese
Unused Credit Cards Life Benefits
Leave Insurance
Cantelmo, Robert G Board of X
Directors
Fleming, Donna Board of X
Directors
Graham, Karl Board of X
Directors
Hull, Siobhan Board of X
Directors
Osterreich, Shaianne Board of X
Directors
Staff
Name Title Severance PaymentClub Use of Personal Auto TransportationHousing Spousal / Tuition Multi-Year None of Other
for Memberships Corporate Loans Allowance Dependent AssistanceEmploymentthese
Unused Credit Cards Life Benefits
Leave Insurance
Bohn, Nels Director of X
Community
Development
Page 7 of 17

Annual Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date: 04/08/2026
Subsidiary/Component Unit Verification
Is the list of subsidiaries, as assembled by the Office of the State Comptroller, correct? Yes
Are there other subsidiaries or component units of the Authority that are active, not included in the No
PARIS reports submitted by this Authority and not independently filing reports in PARIS?
Name of Subsidiary/Component Unit Status
Request Subsidiary/Component Unit Change
Name of Subsidiary/Component Unit Status Requested Changes
Request Add Subsidiaries/Component Units
Name of Subsidiary/Component Unit Establishment Date Purpose of Subsidiary/Component Unit
Request Delete Subsidiaries/Component Units
Name of Subsidiary/Component Unit Termination Date Reason for Termination Proof of Termination Document Name
Page 8 of 17

Annual Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date: 04/08/2026
Summary Financial Information
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF NET ASSETS
Amount
Assets
Current Assets
Cash and cash equivalents $2,083,090.00
Investments $0.00
Receivables, net $5,657,982.00
Other assets $0.00
Total current assets $7,741,072.00
Noncurrent Assets
Restricted cash and investments $0.00
Long-term receivables, net $0.00
Other assets $0.00
Capital Assets
Land and other nondepreciable property $0.00
Buildings and equipment $0.00
Infrastructure $0.00
Accumulated depreciation $0.00
Net Capital Assets $0.00
Total noncurrent assets $0.00
Total assets $7,741,072.00
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable $164,989.00
Pension contribution payable $0.00
Other post-employment benefits $0.00
Accrued liabilities $0.00
Deferred revenues $5,642,207.00
Bonds and notes payable $0.00
Other long-term obligations due within one $0.00
year
Total current liabilities $5,807,196.00
Noncurrent Liabilities
Pension contribution payable $0.00
Other post-employment benefits $0.00
Bonds and notes payable $0.00
Long term leases $0.00
Other long-term obligations $0.00
Total noncurrent liabilities $0.00
Page 9 of 17

Annual Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date: 04/08/2026
Total liabilities $5,807,196.00
Net Asset (Deficit)
Net Assets
Invested in capital assets, net of related debt $0.00
Restricted $1,933,876.00
Unrestricted $0.00
Total net assets $1,933,876.00
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF REVENUE, EXPENSES AND CHANGES IN NET ASSETS
Amount
Operating Revenues
Charges for services $0.00
Rental and financing income $584,490.00
Other operating revenues $267,512.00
Total operating revenue $852,002.00
Operating Expenses
Salaries and wages $311,014.00
Other employee benefits $87,577.00
Professional services contracts $38,920.00
Supplies and materials $108.00
Depreciation and amortization $0.00
Other operating expenses $222,724.00
Total operating expenses $660,343.00
Operating income (loss) $191,659.00
Nonoperating Revenues
Investment earnings $5,286.00
State subsidies/grants $0.00
Federal subsidies/grants $637,847.00
Municipal subsidies/grants $0.00
Public authority subsidies $0.00
Other nonoperating revenues $0.00
Total nonoperating revenue $643,133.00
Nonoperating Expenses
Interest and other financing charges $4,487.00
Subsidies to other public authorities $0.00
Grants and donations $701,114.00
Other nonoperating expenses $0.00
Total nonoperating expenses $705,601.00
Income (loss) before contributions $129,191.00
Capital contributions $0.00
Page 10 of 17

Annual Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date: 04/08/2026
Change in net assets $129,191.00
Net assets (deficit) beginning of year $1,804,685.00
Other net assets changes $0.00
Net assets (deficit) at end of year $1,933,876.00
Page 11 of 17

Annual Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date: 04/08/2026
Current Debt
Question Response
1. Did the Authority have any outstanding debt, including conduit debt, at any point during the reporting period? No
2. If yes, has the Authority issued any debt during the reporting period?
Page 12 of 17

Annual Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date: 04/08/2026
Schedule of Authority Debt
Type of Debt Statutory Authorization Begin Amount Total ($)New Debt Issuance ($) Amount Retired ($) End Amount Total ($)
Amount ($)
State Obligation State Guaranteed
State Obligation State Supported
State Obligation State Contingent
Obligation
State Obligation State Moral Obligation
Other State-Funded Other State-Funded
Authority Debt - General Authority Debt -
Obligation General Obligation
Authority Debt - Revenue Authority Debt -
Revenue
Authority Debt - Other Authority Debt - Other
Conduit Conduit Debt
Conduit Conduit Debt - Pilot Increment
Financing
TOTALS
Page 13 of 17

Annual Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date: 04/08/2026
Real Property Acquisition/Disposal List
This Authority has indicated that it had no real property acquisitions or disposals during the reporting period.
Page 14 of 17

Annual Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date: 04/08/2026
Personal Property
This Authority has indicated that it had no personal property disposals during the reporting period.
Page 15 of 17

Annual Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date: 04/08/2026
Property Documents
Question Response URL (If Applicable)
1. In accordance with Section 2896(3) of PAL, the Authority is required to prepare a report at least annually of all real property of the Yes https://www.cityofithacany.
Authority. Has this report been prepared? gov/DocumentCenter/View/21000/2025-IURA-Real-Property-
Inventory
2. Has the Authority prepared policies, procedures, or guidelines regarding the use, awarding, monitoring, and reporting of contracts No
for the acquisition and disposal of property?
3. In accordance with Section 2896(1) of PAL, has the Authority named a contracting officer who shall be responsible for the Yes N/A
Authority's compliance with and enforcement of such guidelines?
Page 16 of 17

Annual Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date: 04/08/2026
Additional Comments
Page 17 of 17

Certified Financial Audit for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date : 04/08/2026
Financial Documents
Question Response
1. Attach the independent audit of the Authority's financial statements. N/A
URL (If Applicable) Attachments
https://www.cityofithacany.gov/DocumentCenter/View/21030/IURA-2025-Financial-Report Attachment Included
Question Response
2. Has the Authority's independent auditor issued a management letter to the Authority in connection with its audit of the Authority's financial statements? Yes
URL (If Applicable) Attachments
https://www.cityofithacany.gov/DocumentCenter/View/21036/2025-Management-Comment- Attachment Included
Letter
Question Response
3. Has the Authority's independent auditor issued a Report on Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting to the Authority? Yes
URL (If Applicable) Attachments
https://www.cityofithacany.gov/DocumentCenter/View/21036/2025-Management-Comment- Attachment Included
Letter
Question Response
4. Attach any other communication required or allowed by government auditing standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United States to be issued by the Authority's
independent auditor in connection with its annual audit of the Authority's financial statements.
URL (If Applicable) Attachments
Attachment Included
Additional Comments
Page 1 of 1

Investment Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date : 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date: 04/08/2026
Investment Information
Question Response URL (If Applicable)
1. Has the Authority prepared an Annual Investment Report for the reporting period as required by Section 2925 Yes https://www.cityofithacany.
(6) of PAL? gov/DocumentCenter/View/20998/2025-IURA-
Investment-Report-PDF
2. Are the Authority's investment guidelines reviewed and approved annually? No
3. Did the Authority have an independent audit of investments as required by Section 2925(3)(f) of PAL? Yes https://www.cityofithacany.
gov/DocumentCenter/View/21030/IURA-2025-
Financial-Report
4. Has the Authority's independent auditor issued a management letter to the Authority in connection with its Yes https://www.cityofithacany.
annual audit of investments? gov/DocumentCenter/View/21036/2025-Management-
Comment-Letter
AdditionalComments
Page 1 of 1

Procurement Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date : 04/01/2026
Procurement Information:
Question Response URL (If Applicable)
1. Does the Authority have procurement guidelines? Yes https://www.cityofithacany.gov/DocumentCenter/View/2587
2. Are the procurement guidelines reviewed annually, amended if needed, and approved by the Board? No
3. Does the Authority allow for exceptions to the procurement guidelines? No
4. Does the Authority assign credit cards to employees for travel and/or business purchases? No
5. Does the Authority require prospective bidders to sign a non-collusion agreement? Yes
6. Does the Authority incorporate a summary of its procurement policies and prohibitions in its solicitation of No
proposals, bid documents, or specifications for procurement contracts?
7. Did the Authority designate a person or persons to serve as the authorized contact on a specific procurement, in Yes
accordance with Section 139-j(2)(a) of the State Finance Law, "The Procurement Lobbying Act"?
8. Did the Authority determine that a vendor had impermissible contact during a procurement or attempted to No
influence the procurement during the reporting period, in accordance with Section 139-j(10) of the State Finance
Law?
8a. If Yes, was a record made of this impermissible contact?
9. Does the Authority have a process to review and investigate allegations of impermissible contact during a No
procurement, and to impose sanctions in instances where violations have occurred, in accordance with Section
139-j(9) of the State Finance Law?
Page 1 of 4

Procurement Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date : 04/01/2026
Procurement Transactions Listing:
1. Vendor Name H. Sicherman/The Harrison Studio Address Line1 160 Washburn St., Suite 200
Type of Procurement Consulting Services Address Line2 PO Box 473
Award Process Authority Contract - Competitive Bid City LOCKPORT
Award Date 3/3/2025 State NY
End Date 2/28/2026 Postal Code 14095
Fair Market Value Plus 4
Amount $10,000.00 Province/Region
Amount Expended For $0.00 Country United States
Fiscal Year
Explain why the Fair Procurement Loan underwriting services and community development consulting
Market Value is Less Description
than the Amount
2. Vendor Name Insero & Co. CPAs, LLC Address Line1 20 Thormwood Drive
Type of Procurement Other Professional Services Address Line2 Suite 200
Award Process Authority Contract - Non-Competitive Bid City ITHACA
Award Date 1/17/2025 State NY
End Date Postal Code 14850
Fair Market Value $12,700.00 Plus 4
Amount $12,700.00 Province/Region
Amount Expended For $12,700.00 Country United States
Fiscal Year
Explain why the Fair Procurement Financial audit services
Market Value is Less Description
than the Amount
Page 2 of 4

Procurement Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date : 04/01/2026
3. Vendor Name Mariette Geldenhuys Attorney at Law Address Line1 Clinton House, Suite 301
Type of Procurement Legal Services Address Line2 103 W Seneca St
Award Process Authority Contract - Competitive Bid City ITHACA
Award Date 3/3/2025 State NY
End Date 2/28/2026 Postal Code 14850
Fair Market Value Plus 4
Amount $10,000.00 Province/Region
Amount Expended For $8,827.61 Country United States
Fiscal Year
Explain why the Fair Procurement Professional services selected by RFP
Market Value is Less Description
than the Amount
4. Vendor Name Sharon M. Sulimowicz, Attorney at Law Address Line1 118 N. Tioga Street
Type of Procurement Legal Services Address Line2 Suite 202
Award Process Authority Contract - Competitive Bid City ITHACA
Award Date 3/3/2025 State NY
End Date 2/28/2026 Postal Code 14850
Fair Market Value Plus 4
Amount $6,000.00 Province/Region
Amount Expended For $3,892.50 Country United States
Fiscal Year
Explain why the Fair Procurement competitive RFP
Market Value is Less Description
than the Amount
Page 3 of 4

Procurement Report for Ithaca Urban Renewal Agency Run Date: 04/14/2026
Status: CERTIFIED
Fiscal Year Ending: 12/31/2025 Certified Date : 04/01/2026
5. Vendor Name Tompkins County Facilities Department Address Line1 170 Bostwick Road
Type of Procurement Consulting Services Address Line2
Award Process Authority Contract - Non-Competitive Bid City ITHACA
Award Date 4/25/2025 State NY
End Date Postal Code 14850
Fair Market Value $9,300.00 Plus 4
Amount $9,300.00 Province/Region
Amount Expended For $9,300.00 Country United States
Fiscal Year
Explain why the Fair Procurement Reimbursement for Geotechnical engineering services completed at Ithaca
Market Value is Less Description Urban Renewal Agency property located at the southerly terminus of
than the Amount Cherry Street
Additional Comments
Page 4 of 4

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

IURA Neighborhood Investment Committee Recommended 2026 HUD Entitlement Program (City of Ithaca, NY)
(grey boxes = not eligible under that column/program) Last Updated: 4/10/26
PROJECT FUNDING AVAILABLE
Funding Matching Funds Total Project
# Project Sponsor Total CDBG Total HOME TOTAL Project Summary Description
Request (Sec. & Unsec.) Cost
$ 738,846 $ 2 60,873 $ 9 99,719
HOUSING
Rochester Management, Inc.
1 The Citizen $ 100,000 $36,609,244 $ 36,709,244 $ - $ - Funds for construction of 59 permanently affordable and supportive housing units in downtown Ithaca.
(RMI)
Funds towards rehabilitation of Henry St. John Building, resulting in all-electric building with updated interior and restored historic exterior, increasing number
Henry St. John Residential Ithaca Neighborhood Housing
2 $ 199,900 $4,552,340 $ 4,752,240 $ 60,000 $ 42,923 $ 1 02,923 of units from 12 to 16 high-quality affordable housing units. This is the only 2026 project eligible for mandatory 15% HOME CHDO Set-Aside allocation
Building Renovation*** Services, Inc. (INHS)
($42,923.34).
Ithaca Neighborhood Housing Funding towards salary/benefits to provide at least 40 LMI homeowners with maintenance and repairs focused on health/safety issues, accessibility, and
3 Minor Repair Program $ 45,000 $161,268 $ 206,268 $ 45,000 $ 4 5,000
Services, Inc. (INHS) providing links to other programs and services.
Funds will be used for Tenant-Based Rental Assistance and utilities for unaccompanied homeless youth in 5 scattered site apartments chosen and leased by
4 Housing Scholarship Program The Learning Web, Inc. $ 91,404 $84,494 $ 175,898 $ 91,404 $ 9 1,404
the youth.
Security Deposit Assistance for Catholic Charities of Funding towards security deposits for 92 LMI households (incl. elderly, disabled, single parents) at risk of homelessness to access safe/stable housing and
5 $ 96,000 $27,940 $ 123,940 $ 96,000 $ 9 6,000
Vulnerable Households Tompkins/Tioga Counties avoid/end homelessness.
Funding for renovation of 618 W. State St. to create 10 units of permanent supportive housing for individuals experiencing homelessness. Note: The Davis-
6 The Ross House The REACH Project, Inc. $ 100,000 $3,692,139 $ 3,792,139 $ 69,454 $ 30,546 $ 1 00,000
Bacon Act applies to HOME projects with 11 or fewer units and CDBG projects with 7 or fewer units.
HOUSING SUBTOTAL: $ 632,304 $ 45,127,425 $ 45,759,729 $ 1 74,454 $ 2 60,873 $ 4 35,327
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Coordinated Pathways to Finger Lakes ReUse, Inc.
7 $ 65,132 $191,425 $ 256,557 $ 65,132 $ 6 5,132 Funding of job-training opportunities for LMI populations, including placement of at least 10 individuals into permanent unsubsidized employment.
Permanent Local Employment (FLRU)
Hospitality Employment Training Greater Ithaca Activities Funding for job-training of 20 underemployed adults with barriers to employment, including 14 placements into hospitality, customer service, office, and
8 $ 100,000 $106,142 $ 206,142 $ 100,000 $ 1 00,000
Program (HETP) Center, Inc. (GIAC) childcare-related jobs.
[#] Economic Development Loan IURA $ 160,000 $ - $ 160,000 $ 72,997 $ 7 2,997 Capitalize loan fund for business loans resulting in job creation (including underwriting and delivery).
Fund
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SUBTOTAL: $ 325,132 $ 297,567 $ 622,699 $ 2 38,129 $ - $ 238,129
PUBLIC FACILITIES/INFRASTRUCTURE
Pathways to Home: Purchasing
9 The Village at Ithaca $ 125,000 $400,000 $ 525,000 $ 125,000 $ 1 25,000 Funds towards acquisition of property that provides safe/stable transitional housing for low-income young adults experiencing homelessness.
the Village House
Floral Avenue Pedestrian &
10 City of Ithaca $ 94,000 $5,000 $ 99,000 $ 94,000 $ 9 4,000 Funds towards materials/construction and staff time to improve pedestrian/cyclist safety through installation of 3 raised crosswalks to slow traffic on Floral Ave.
Cyclist Safety
Wharton/DPW Building ADA Funds towards demolition/construction to address existing barriers to access for people with disabilities, mobility challenges, and older visitors, significantly
11 Friends of Stewart Park $ 99,899 $10,000 $ 109,899 $ - $ -
Improvements enhancing park's usability.
PUBLIC FACILITIES SUBTOTAL: $318,899 $ 415,000 $ 733,899 $ 219,000 $ - $ 219,000
PUBLIC SERVICES Public Services Funding Cap = 15% of CDBG Award:$107,263
Housing Scholarship Program
Funds will be used for a portion of case management, mental health counseling, and administrative oversight needed to support participants and administrate
12 Personnel Support (connected to #4 The Learning Web, Inc. $ 34,633 $84,494 $ 119,127 $ 30,000 $ 3 0,000 the Housing Scholarship Program.
above)
Staffing Assistance for Security Catholic Charities of
13 $ 15,000 $5,530 $ 20,530 $ 15,000 $ 1 5,000 Funding towards staffing costs to assist homeless and near-homeless households with security deposit funds.
Deposit Clients Tompkins/Tioga Counties
Improving Essential Low-Cost Funding towards purchase of new e-bikes and rechargeable batteries to increase availability/quality of Ithaca Bikeshare's e-bike fleet, assisting 210 LMI
14 Ithaca Bikeshare $ 40,000 $40,625 $ 80,625 $ - $ -
Transportation Access individuals.
Bridging the Gap: Employment
15 Services for Individuals in All Service in Unity $ 20,000 $61,000 $ 81,000 $ - $ - Funding towards staff salaries, payroll taxes, insurance, and administrative support for LMI individuals in all forms of recovery.
Forms of Recovery
2-1-1 Information & Referral Human Services Coalition of
16 $ 22,000 $22,000 $ 44,000 $ 15,000 $ 1 5,000 Funding towards staff salaries and fringe benefits to provide essential personnel coverage for the 2-1-1 contact center, benefiting at least 2,870 households.
Helpline with Housing Navigation Tompkins County, Inc. (HSC)
Bike Walk Tompkins (Center Funding towards salaries, safety equipment (i.e., helmets, locks, lights), and pop-up repair clinics thereby increasing access to bicycles as an affordable form
17 Mobile Bike Repair Clinic $ 30,000 $100,800 $ 130,800 $ 20,000 $ 2 0,000
for Community Transportation) of transportation for at least 60 LMI households.
Enhance Local Tenants Rights
Cornell Cooperative Extension
18 Education & Connection to $ 20,000 $3,400 $ 23,400 $ - $ - Funding towards staff time and printing/marketing to increase access to local tenant services for at least 17,222 LMI households.
(CCE)
Services
ReUse Materials Access Program
19 for Ithaca Households in Need Finger Lakes ReUse, Inc. $ 27,703 $78,365 $ 106,068 $ 27,263 $ 2 7,263 Funding towards staffing and essential materials/delivery services benefiting at least 120 vulnerable LMI households.
(ReMAP)
PUBLIC SERVICES SUBTOTAL: $ 209,336 $ 396,214 $ 605,550 $ 107,263 $ - $ 107,263
R/U = Recaptured/Unallocated (from prior years) │ LMI = Low & Moderate Income (80% or less of AMI) │ AMI = Area Median Income (Tompkins County) │
TOTALS: $ 1,657,303 $ 46,236,206 $ 47,893,509 $ 738,846 $ 260,873 $ 999,719
FTE = Full-Time Equivalent │ PI = Program Income │ CHDO = Community Housing Development Organization
Project Funding Remaining: $0 $0 $0
CDBG HOME TOTAL
Minimum Required Set-Aside of HOME Funds for CHDO Activities (15%):$42,923.34 *** CHDO Set-Aside Eligible Projects: 1

January 2026
ON TOTAL TOTAL January February Expenditures
# SCHEDULE HUD ENTITLEMENT ACTIVITIES SPONSOR BUDGET EXPENDED UNEXPENDED % SPENT Unexpended Unexpended February
2021 HOME ARP Activity
8023 ok 24.0 HOME-ARP Admin IURA 182,001.75 94,349.11 87,652.64 52% $92,574.30 $87,652.64 $4,921.66
HOME ARP-Formula funds (Activities TBD) 1,031,343.25 0.00 1,031,343.25 0% $1,031,343.25 $1,031,343.25 $0.00
Total 1,213,345.00 94,349.11 1,118,995.89 8%
2021 HOME Activities
8026 complete 1.0 110 Auburn Street Homeowner Project INHS 24,999.00 24,999.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
8027 complete 2.0 Homeowner Rehab32 INHS 57,170.80 57,170.80 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
8028 complete 5.0 511 S. Plain Street For-Sale Duplex21, 31 INHS 97,850.00 97,850.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
8029 complete 6.0 Housing Scholarship Program2,40 The Learning Web 71,685.08 71,685.08 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
8030 complete 7.0 Security Deposit Asst for Vunerable Households46 Catholic Charities 74,000.00 74,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
8031 complete 23.0 2021 HOME Admin IURA 33,471.50 33,471.50 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
2021 Home Unallocated21,32, 34,40,41,45 1,287.38 0.00 1,287.38 N/A
Total 360,463.76 359,176.38 1,287.38 100%
2022 CDBG Activities
6104 ok 2.0 Homeowner Rehab INHS 136,123.31 78,855.69 57,267.62 58% $57,267.62 $57,267.62 $0.00
6105 complete 3.0 Minor Repair Program INHS 40,000.00 40,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6106 complete 6.0a Security Deposit Asst Delivery Catholic Charities 2,500.00 2,500.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6107 complete 7.0 Green Job Opportunities Through ReUse Training Finger Lakes ReUse 61,934.65 61,934.65 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6108 complete 8.0 Work Preserve Job Training Historic Ithaca, Inc. 67,500.00 67,500.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6109 complete 9.0 Hospitality Employment Training Program GIAC 50,000.00 50,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6110 complete 10.0 Catholic Charities Building INHS 66,170.44 66,170.44 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6111 complete 11.0 West End Pedestrian Improvements City of Ithaca 55,000.00 55,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
complete 12.0 2-1-1 Information & Referral HSC 20,000.00 20,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
complete 13.0 Job Readiness Historic Ithaca, Inc. 20,000.00 20,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
complete 14.0 Immigrant Services Catholic Charities 30,000.00 30,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6112 complete 15.0 GIAC Computer Lab GIAC 10,689.96 10,689.96 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6113 complete 16.0 Pre-Apprentice Program Work Services41 Black Hands Universal 10,650.00 10,650.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6114 complete 18.0 2022 CDBG Admin IURA 126,666.60 126,666.60 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6103 complete 20.0 FLRU Job Retention Finger Lakes ReUse 98,025.60 98,025.60 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
complete Economic Development Loan Fund IURA 50,000.00 50,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
2022 CDBG unallocated33, 39, 41,47 1,341.15 0.00 1,341.15 N/A
Total 846,601.71 787,992.94 58,608.77 93%
2022 HOME Activities
8033 ok 1.0 215 Cleveland Ave. For-Sale Home INHS 50,000.00 48,600.00 1,400.00 97% $1,400.00 $1,400.00 $0.00
8034 ok 2.0 Homeowner Rehab INHS 12,517.50 0.00 12,517.50 0% $12,517.50 $12,517.50 $0.00
8035 complete 4.0 Aurora Street & Morris Ave. Revitalization Habitat for Humanity 70,000.00 70,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
8036 ok 5.0 Sears Street Development INHS 92,140.40 90,567.55 1,572.85 98% $1,572.85 $1,572.85 $0.00
8037 complete 6.0 Security Deposit Asst for Vunerable Households Catholic Charities 74,000.00 74,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
8038 complete 19.0 2022 HOME Admin32 IURA 31,913.70 31,913.70 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
2022 Home Unallocated21 0.00 0.00 0.00 N/A $0.00
Total 330,571.60 315,081.25 15,490.35 95%
2023 CDBG Activities
6117 NO 2.0 Homeowner Rehab33 INHS 146,250.00 0.00 146,250.00 0% $146,250.00 $146,250.00 $0.00
6118 complete 3.0 Minor Repair Program INHS 40,000.00 40,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6119 canceled 4.0 CHT Sears Street Development39 INHS 0.00 0.00 0.00 0% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6120 ok 8.0 Buidling Quality Career Paths Through ReUse Finger Lakes ReUse 78,595.00 78,448.28 146.72 99.80% $146.72 $146.72 $0.00
6121 ok 9.0 Work Preserve Job Placements Historic Ithaca, Inc. 67,500.00 66,060.13 1,439.87 98% $1,439.87 $1,439.87 $0.00
6122 ok 10.0 HETP GIAC 54,320.00 52,374.59 1,945.41 96% $1,945.41 $1,945.41 $0.00
6123 NO 11.0 Shared Kitchen Ithaca Friends of Ithaca Farmers Market 32,500.00 0.00 32,500.00 0% $32,500.00 $32,500.00 $0.00
6124 complete 12.0 2-1-1 Information & Referral HSC 32,000.00 32,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6125 complete 13.0 Job Readiness Historic Ithaca, Inc. 13,657.00 13,657.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6126 complete 14.0 Immigrant Services Catholic Charities 40,000.00 40,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6127 complete 15.0 A Place to Stay Catholic Charities 10,000.00 10,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6128 complete 16.0 2023 CDBG Admin IURA 127,542.80 127,542.80 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6129 ok Economic Development Loan Fund IURA 141,182.40 71,182.40 70,000.00 50% $70,000.00 $70,000.00 $0.00
6130 complete 7.0 SJCS Sober Living Reintegration Project39 St. John's Comm. Services 14,849.87 14,849.87 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
2023 CDBG unallocated 0.00 0.00 0.00 N/A
Total 798,397.07 546,115.07 252,282.00 68%
2023 HOME Activities
8041 ok 4.0 CHT Sears Street Development34, 38 INHS 100,000.00 98,719.05 1,280.95 99% $1,280.95 $1,280.95 $0.00
8042 ok 5.0 312 S. Plain Street Duplex Habitat for Humanity 95,061.60 94,061.60 1,000.00 98.95% $1,000.00 $1,000.00 $0.00
8043 complete 6.0 Security Deposit Asst for Vunerable Households Catholic Charities 37,500.00 37,500.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
8044 canceled 7.0 SJCS Sober Living Reintegration Services38 St. John's Community Services 0.00 0.00 0.00 0% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
8045 complete 17.0 2023 HOME Admin IURA 33,326.40 33,326.40 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
8046 complete 8. HQS Inspections38 Independent contractor 2,500.00 2,500.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
2023 Home Unallocated41,45 0.00 0.00 0.00 N/A $0.00
Total 268,388.00 266,107.05 2,280.95 99%
2024 CDBG Activities
6132 ok 4.0 Minor Repair Program43 INHS 36,508.00 28,534.33 7,973.67 78% $7,973.67 $7,973.67 $0.00
6133 ok 5a.0 Housing Inspections for Security Deposit Assistant IURA Service Contrtactor 2,500.00 0.00 2,500.00 0%. $2,500.00 $2,500.00 $0.00
6134 ok 6.0 Career & Resources Program Black Hands Universal 6,670.00 3,525.37 3,144.63 53% $4,145.18 $3,144.63 $1,000.55
6135 ok 7.0 Expanded ReUse Training Opportunities Finger Lakes ReUse 137,480.00 86,136.69 51,343.31 63% $67,282.23 $51,343.31 $15,938.92
6136 ok 8.0 Work Preserve Job Placements Historic Ithaca, Inc. 67,500.00 25,372.88 42,127.12 38% $42,127.12 $42,127.12 $0.00
6137 complete 9.0 200 Cecil A. Malone Dr. Pedestrian Improvements City of Ithaca 160,000.00 160,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6138 ok 10.0 DICC ADA Upgrades & Modifications DICC 20,620.00 4,939.39 15,680.61 24% $15,680.61 $15,680.61 $0.00
6139 complete 11.0 2-1-1 Information & Referral HSC 17,020.00 17,020.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6140 complete 12.0 A Place to Stay for Homeless Catholic Charities 15,000.00 15,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6141 ok 13.0 Housing Scholarships Personnel Support The Learning Web 13,130.00 9,000.00 4,130.00 69% $4,130.00 $4,130.00 $0.00
6142 complete 14.0 Immigrant Services Catholic Charities 20,000.00 20,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6143 ok 15.0 Job Readiness Historic Ithaca, Inc. 9,500.00 9,414.47 85.53 99% $85.53 $85.53 $0.00
6144 complete 16.0 Security Deposit Asst Intensive Staffing Catholic Charities 3,000.00 3,000.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6145 complete 17.0 Collaborative Street Outreach Program OAR 20,150.00 20,150.00 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
6146 complete 18.0 2024 CDBG Admin IURA 130,406.20 130,406.20 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
2024 CDBG unallocated43 3,492.00 0.00 3,492.00 N/A
Economic Development Loan Fund 150,054.80 1,000.00 149,054.80 $149,054.80 $149,054.80 $0.00
Total 813,031.00 533,499.33 279,531.67 66%
2024 HOME Activities
8048 Canceled 1.0 The Beacon44 INHS 6,055.80 6,055.80 0.00 0% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
8049 ok 2.0 113-115 Cleveland Ave. INHS 120,000.00 0.00 120,000.00 0% $120,000.00 $120,000.00 $0.00
8050 ok 3.0 Housing Scholarship Program41 The Learning Web 84,060.00 37,368.65 46,691.35 44% $46,691.35 $46,691.35 $0.00
8051 complete 5.0 Security Deposit Asst for Vunerable Households46 Catholic Charities 85,630.00 85,630.00 0.00 100% $1,959.38 $0.00 $1,959.38
8052 complete 19.0 2024 HOME Admin IURA 24,416.20 24,416.20 0.00 100% $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
2024 Home Unallocated44 2,045.62 0.00 2,045.62 N/A
Total 322,207.62 153,470.65 168,736.97 48%
2025 CDBG Activities
6149 ok 1.0 209 West State Street INHS 78,968.40 0.00 78,968.40 0% $78,968.40 $78,968.40 $0.00
6150 ok 2.0 610 West Court Street Habitat for Humanity 80,000.00 0.00 80,000.00 0% $80,000.00 $80,000.00 $0.00
6151 ok 4.0 Minor Repair Program INHS 45,000.00 0.00 45,000.00 0% $45,000.00 $45,000.00 $0.00
ok 6.0 ReUse, IT & Clean Energy Job Skills Training FLRU 148,540.00 0.00 148,540.00 0% $148,540.00 $148,540.00 $0.00
6152 ok 7.0 Hospitality Employment Training Program GIAC 95,400.00 34,598.61 60,801.39 36% $95,400.00 $60,801.39 $34,598.61
6153 NO 8.0 Work Preserve Job Placements Historic Ithaca, Inc. 67,500.00 0.00 67,500.00 0% $67,500.00 $67,500.00 $0.00
6154 NO 9.0 Southside Community Center Upgrades Southside Community Center 70,400.00 0.00 70,400.00 0% $70,400.00 $70,400.00 $0.00
6155 ok 10.0 ReUse Materials Access Program (ReMap) FLRU 7,300.00 0.00 7,300.00 0% $7,300.00 $7,300.00 $0.00
6156 ok 11.0 2-1-1 Information & Referral HSC 18,200.00 16,790.40 1,409.60 92% $1,409.60 $1,409.60 $0.00
6157 ok 12.0 A Place to Stay for Homeless Catholic Charities 10,000.00 0.00 10,000.00 0% $10,000.00 $10,000.00 $0.00
6158 ok 13.0 Housing Scholarships Personnel Support The Learning Web 13,600.00 0.00 13,600.00 0% $13,600.00 $13,600.00 $0.00
6159 ok 14.0 ISP Catholic Charities 30,000.00 0.00 30,000.00 0% $30,000.00 $30,000.00 $0.00
6160 ok 15.0 Job Readiness Historic Ithaca, Inc. 17,000.00 0.00 17,000.00 0% $17,000.00 $17,000.00 $0.00
6161 ok 16.0 Security Deposit Asst Intensive Staffing Catholic Charities 6,000.00 0.00 6,000.00 0% $6,000.00 $6,000.00 $0.00
6163 ok 17.0 2025 CDBG Admin IURA 136,183.60 46,566.20 89,617.40 34% $129,082.83 $89,617.40 $39,465.43
2025 CDBG unallocated 0.00 0.00 0.00 N/A $0.00
Economic Development Loan Fund 16,826.00 0.00 16,826.00 $16,826.00 $16,826.00 $0.00
Total 840,918.00 97,955.21 742,962.79 12%
2025 HOME Activities
8055 ok 1.0 209 West State Street INHS 42,098.20 0.00 42,098.20 0% $42,098.20 $42,098.20 $0.00
8056 ok 3.0 Housing Scholarship Program The Learning Web 95,340.00 0.00 95,340.00 0% $95,340.00 $95,340.00 $0.00
8057 ok 5.0 Security Deposit Assistance45 Catholic Charities 96,000.00 10.62 95,989.38 0% $96,000.00 $95,989.38 $10.62
8058 ok 18.0 2025 HOME Admin IURA 24,598.41 4,975.07 19,623.34 20% $22,626.09 $19,623.34 $3,002.75
2025 HOME Unallocated 0.00 0.00 0.00 N/A
Total 258,036.61 4,985.69 253,050.92 2%
Page 1 of 2

January 2026
ON TOTAL TOTAL January February Expenditures
# SCHEDULE HUD ENTITLEMENT ACTIVITIES SPONSOR BUDGET EXPENDED UNEXPENDED % SPENT Unexpended Unexpended February
BG Entitlement & PI/RL Expense - February $91,003.51
CDBG PI $0.00
Total Unexpended Funds CD-RLF Delivery Exp - February $4,986.41
Unexpended CDBG Entitlement Funds 954,330.43 TOTAL EXPENSE - February 2026 $95,989.92
Unexpended CDBG Program Income Committed to Action Plan Activities 379,054.80 TOTAL EXPENSE - JUNE 2025 $14,628.25
CDBG Revolving Loan Fund Balance (#02 Bank Balance excluding interest) 306,958.19 TOTAL EXPENSE - JULY 2025 $38,752.48
Unexpended HOME Entitlement Funds 1,558,555.38 TOTAL EXPENSE - AUGUST 2025 $25,047.21
Unexpended CDBG Program Income (included in Revolving Loan Fund Balance (#02 bank Acct Above)) 0.00 TOTAL EXPENSE - SEPTEMBER $11,990.81
CDBG Program Income Unassigned 0.00 TOTAL EXPENSE - OCTOBER $68,753.22
Unexpended HOME Program Income 40,000.00 TOTAL EXPENSE - NOVEMBER $56,324.75
HOME Program Income Unassigned 40,000.00 TOTAL EXPENSE - DECEMBER $27,003.23
Unexpended HUD Funds (Excluding CV Funds) 2,819,844.00 TOTAL EXPENSE - JANUARY 2026 $268,149.01
TOTAL EXPENSE - MARCH 2026 $0.00
1.5 CDBG Spend Down Ratio Analysis (must be less than 1.5 by June 1st of each year): TOTAL EXPENSE - APRIL 2026 $0.00
CDBG Spend Down Ratio = total unexpended CDBG funds/most recent annual CDBG award TOTAL EXPENSE MAY 2026 $0.00
Most Recent Annual CDBG Award: 680,918 TOTAL EXPENSE YTD (from 6/1/2025) $606,638.88
1.5 x Most Recent CDBG Award: 1,021,377
Current Unexpended CDBG Funds: 1,261,288.62
Current CDBG Spend Down Ratio: 1.8523
Compliance With 1.5 CDBG Spend Down Ratio: NO
Amount Required to be Expended by 6/1 to Meet CDBG Spend Down Ratio: 239,911.62
CDBG Timeliness Monthly Expenditures (Target $75,645/month)
Targeted Monthly Expenditures = Adjusted LOC Balance (as of 6/1 each year) + CDBG Award (September each year) + Projected PI/12 months
Monthly Spend Down Required to Meet Target 75,645.04
Actual Spend Down for Current Month 95,989.92
Met Per Month Target ($75,645/month) YES
YTD Spend down Required to Meet Target 680,805.35
YTD Actual Spend Down 606,638.88
Met YTD Target NO
Amount Needed to Meet Yearly Expenditure Goal 301,101.58
Page 2 of 2