In-Person Hybrid Meetings: The IURA no longer conducts Public Meetings exclusively remotely. Meetings must be conducted in
person, complying with NYS Open Meeting Law (OML), which applies to all IURA Board and Committees. Members of the public
who would like to deliver VERBAL comments at a meeting (3-min. max.) are strongly encouraged to do so using the Zoom link and
108 E. Green St. log-on credentials listed on the agenda, although they are welcome to do so in person at City Hall. WRITTEN public comments
Ithaca, NY 14850 may be submitted before the meeting, using the instructions listed on the agenda. Pls. refer to the IURA Public In-Person/Hybrid
(607) 274-6565 Meetings Policy for more detailed information and further instructions. LIVE-STREAM VIDEO: A non-interactive YouTube live-
stream of the meeting can also be viewed at: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC7RtJN1P_RFaFW2IVCnTrDg. Because of a
slight delay in launching the live-stream, the video may begin a few minutes before the meeting is formally convened.
AGENDA
IURA Neighborhood Investment Committee (NIC)
1:00 p.m., Thursday, April 9, 2026 (3rd NIC Meeting of 2026 AAP)
(public, staff, & presenters may join remotely)
Common Council Chambers (Third Floor) │ 108 E. Green St. │ Ithaca, NY 14850
Pre-Register to Join Zoom Meeting:
https://us02web.zoom.us/meeting/register/l9TWCM_bQoqWDrr0ysutow
PUBLIC COMMENTS
Once registered, Zoom will send you an email with further information on how to join. WRITTEN public comments may
be e-mailed until 3:00 p.m.,
the day before the meeting to:
amendizabal@cityofithaca.or
g. Members of the public who
I. Call to Order would prefer to deliver VERBAL
comments at the meeting (3-
II. Changes/Additions to Agenda min. max.) should either
appear in person or use above
III. Public Comments (if any) Zoom link and log-in
credentials (for video) or dial-
IV. Review of Minutes: March 5 & March 12, 2026 (AAP Review Meetings) in number and log-in
credentials (for telephone).
V. New Business
A. Review/Discuss to Recommend - 2026 HUD Annual Action Plan Applications
a. Affordable Housing
b. Public Facilities
VI. Other Business
TBD
VII. Motion to Adjourn
If you have a disability and require specific accommodation in order to fully participate,
please contact the CITY OF ITHACA CLERK’S OFFICE at 274-6570 or clerk@cityofithaca.org at least 72 hours prior to the meeting.